KITZMILLER, et al., Plaintiffs vs. 
JONES, III Date : September 28, Place : Courtroom Number 2, 9th Floor Federal Building Walnut Street Harrisburg, Pennsylvania COUNSEL PRESENT: ERIC J. 
STEPHEN G. 
RICHARD B. 
RICHARD THOMPSON, ESQ. 
MUISE, EQ For Defendants Lori A. 
All right. 
That related specifically to -- filed by the reporters. 
Subsequently, the reporters were, if memory serves, approximately eight days ago, subpoenaed to testify by the plaintiffs in the case-in-chief. 
Now, have I mischaracterized anything from your standpoint? 
Now, the most salient question then is, with respect to the reporters' appearance today, is it your understanding that the reporters are intending to invoke the same privilege cited by them yesterday, if called, when called, to testify by the plaintiffs? 
All right. 
The floor is yours. 
And what I mean by that, with regard to all of you in this room is that we've got approximately 40 people from the media that are observing this trial in the courtroom, plus outside of the courtroom. 
I clearly will not get what I want, because at the end of the day, if I agree that my reporters are going to testify predicated upon something that I want to propose here, that's more than I would want, because I stand by the fact and they stand by the fact that there's a reporter's privilege here. 
And based upon that, they would then testify in court. 
One is that when we filed our motion to quash last week, quite honestly, we thought we did it in a timely fashion because we filed it only after we were served with the subpoena. 
They've got no protective order at all. 
Because the order I believe that you had previously entered related to the deposition and not related to their appearance in court. 
I interpret the order and the amended order to mean that Your Honor, in a sense, has addressed them as fact witnesses. 
And ironically -- in a sense, I have to commend both Mr. 
Bernard-Bubb because, again, they're paid per story. 
They might make $300, $400 a week if they write X number of stories, and that's it. 
She's a full-time mom. 
She has a seven-month old child, and so she works at night when her husband is at home. 
And he's been doing that for the last three years. 
But yet without a lot of education in terms of journalism, they believe that what they're standing for is the right thing. 
So having said that, their fear is that because of all those municipalities that they cover and the school districts that they cover, that at least in the Middle District Court, should a matter come up similar to this case, then they are exposed as a fact witness. 
Well, we provided an affidavit, and that affidavit indicated that we, if called upon to testify, would validate the authenticity of the articles that were written. 
Accepted by the plaintiffs, not accepted by the defendants. 
And at the time when you wrote the original order and you used the words "perceived, saw, and heard," we were concerned, as you well know, with the word "perceived" in terms as to what's the thought process. 
And, in fact, when you reviewed the notes of the reporters, you had also indicated that your review of Heidi Bubb's notes and the e-mails clearly evidence that there was no bias in the writings, those writings. 
And I wanted to let you go as far as you could, and I think I have to interject and I want to interject and I want to be clear, because I think it's important that I do that. 
It was an attempt to bring this to a head. 
It was not successful in solving the problem, but it was successful to bringing it to a head. 
With respect to the point that you made as it relates to their testimony at trial, that is a very valid point. 
So it would not revert back to an unprotected realm, if you will, at the time of trial. 
I understand your concern in that regard. 
The concern in this case, and it is a vital concern by all parties, is that we have, as you well know, to restate the obvious, we have newspaper articles within which there are quotes from individuals. 
The simple issue here, because it is the Court's understanding that these individuals have denied that they made these remarks, is from the plaintiffs' standpoint how can they get something that is, in my view, on the purpose test, which clearly goes to the truth of the matter asserted, how do they get these newspaper articles into evidence? 
The defendants might say that even with the reporters testifying, they can't get them in. 
But at the very least, in my view, and I think the plaintiffs might agree with this, the reporters would have to testify. 
I can't say that to the word, and that's why the opinions were crafted the way that they were. 
But I was as clear as I could possibly be that what is at issue here would be, for example, the particular events that the reporters wrote about and questions such as -- simple questions, did they attend the meeting, did they hear them say the comments, did they write the story immediately after, did they take notes at the time of the meeting. 
There I believe we would decidedly fly in the face of established case law. 
In this particular fact situation -- and I do think, I will say, on the issue of precedent, you can distinguish cases of -- and I'm not so sure I would be as fearful as some might be as to precedential value. 
We are in a very unique situation here, and that's what we have. 
I don't think it's necessary to do that. 
I will allow them to speak for themselves on that point, and then we'll decide what we're going to do at that point. 
Well, let me share with you why I have the issue that I have. 
I think we're beyond that. 
They indicated that they would not. 
So and So say something, why didn't they write that. 
But you weren't at the deposition, meaning you don't know that that question wouldn't be allowed and quite frankly yesterday you were in trial. 
And I know that you respect that. 
I do know from my private practice experience that I was extremely loathed to get a judge on the telephone in mid-deposition. 
You got it. 
What I invited by that opinion, though, was that I would be available -- and I believe in an issue that is as important to the reporters and to you, as their counsel, as this, it is appropriate for you to stop a deposition on a question like that, instruct your witness not to answer, and allow the Court to rule on it. 
That means everything that's set forth in that article. 
Then I think you should reschedule the depositions and try to do that. 
Because we don't have an order with respect to trial testimony -- and we don't, except for the fact that, again, they're naked. 
Well, let me share with you where I'm coming from, because I think what I've done here -- and obviously I can't do your job. 
Depending how long this trial goes, you might be my guest in terms of doing my job. 
And if I could just read this. 
Because I think it does exactly what you just said. 
By doing so, the reporters would be verbalizing the contents of said affidavit -- I think, actually, they were your words when we had the telephone conference -- by testifying as to what appears in the newspaper article or articles, unless such affidavit is otherwise accepted by all parties as validating and authenticating the contents of the newspaper article or articles in issue. 
However, no testimony shall relate to unpublished material or information or to the reporters' motivations, bias, mental impressions, or other information extrinsic to what the reporter saw and heard, and the reporter shall not be obligated to reveal any confidential sources. 
That's the clarity that I need. 
Buckingham or Mr. 
Meaning if you could adapt language similar to this for the trial testimony and I agree, I have no problem in them being at a deposition prior to trial with the same kind of language relative to that. 
Well, the problem Friday, I assume you fellows are getting out of here on Friday, but I'm not sure of that. 
I mean, whatever works. 
Do we need the whole team? 
Well, we'll do what we have to do. 
Go ahead. 
And this is why, in our opinion, Judge. 
Well, that's what I'm not going to get into. 
And what I don't want to do here is turn this into an oral argument on things that I've already decided. 
I think there is a privilege here, and I think the privilege sometimes gets drawn in what appears to be an ad hoc manner. 
To traipse into the area of why they selectively used a quote as opposed to not using other things that were said I think is to get on a very slippery slope. 
I am trying to narrowly draw this. 
And, as a matter of fact, I think if I did that and I ordered that and if -- I assume that the reporters would not testify and I would predict, if it went to the Third Circuit on that basis, I would be reversed. 
This looks artificial when you're dealing with a fact witness, but these are fact witnesses who are also reporters, and I am straining to try to find a fair way to do this. 
So I'm inclined to accept this language, you know, not word for word, only to the extent where it states, rather generically, "wherein an affidavit is provided," I would take that sentence and simply say that affidavits have been provided, rather than "wherein." It's somewhat artificial or a little strained as it relates to this case. 
And this gets into a semantical exercise to some degree but one that is important, I understand, to the reporters. 
And it will be abbreviated because of the time constraints on me, but we'll issue it forthwith, and it will indicate that you're going to -- they're going to sit for depositions under those circumstances. 
In what sense? 
"Reported" meaning in the books. 
I have no need. 
You have no idea. 
Your Honor, just in an effort to avoid needless procedure or inquiry, if I could just get a sense for what you have in mind and intend by the order. 
No, because -- and I know this is difficult, but it goes like this. 
We have articles. 
This is my understanding, either denied that they said what was reported in the articles or said that they were statements taken out of context. 
And that's one of the reasons that I'm line-drawing here. 
Did they hear the statement that is included in the article? 
How long after the meeting did they write their article, did they use the tape recorder, did they use notes as it related to that statement. 
To allay Mr. 
I sincerely believe that that gets into journalistic integrity, and that's problematic, and it's not my intent to allow that, nor would I allow any questioning on anything personal to the reporters. 
We are going to simply have them testify for the purpose of authenticating the contents of that article, nothing more, nothing less, because I really believe that to do more than that is to create, I think, a precedent which would have reporters called -- Mr. 
I don't share that fear. 
I strain mightily not to have to do that. 
Now, I don't know if that clarifies it. 
And I would ask this, with your leave, would it suffice to preserve my objection that I object here in chambers on the record? 
And I note that, and that's why I wanted to do this on the record. 
And to the extent that this really clarifies and reasserts what I have in my prior orders, I think you've preserved your position as it relates to that, and I understand that position. 
Anything from the plaintiffs? 
All right. 
I just wanted to make sure the word "affidavit" was in there. 
We will get a clarifying order out. 
What's your intention, what are your thoughts regarding how we should address this? 
I think you can assume, unless you doubt my word, I'm going to issue an order -- and I'm very serious -- I'm going to issue an order and that order will be forthwith. 
If I might be so bold, that we are satisfied with the resolution. 
We expect an order that is consistent with our understanding of an agreement that we reached -- I will let it to you to address that. 
We would just move on. 
I'm simply saying I don't want wiggle room that we're waiting to see, because I've had that experience now before. 
And you don't want to do it again, I know, I recognize. 
With regard to asking what they saw and heard with regard to all of the statements and the articles, I would assume that's statements made after the gavel banged and the meeting was over. 
Yes. 
THE COURT: Ask the question that you want to ask. 
No. 
The issue here, I'll restate, is the veracity of the articles themselves, did the reporter hear the statement as reported. 
The individual who believes -- who was quoted and believes the statement was taken out of context or flatly that he didn't or she didn't say it and it's inaccurate will have the opportunity to say that during the defendants case-in-chief or at any other time during the trial. 
Context is a dangerous thing as it relates to what we're doing here. 
That's of no moment. 
Now, I can't be any clearer than that. 
Your Honor, one thing I might ask, since it is perhaps likely that issues are going to arise during the deposition, I'm wondering if we could now attempt to schedule the deposition at a time when everybody, including Your Honor, might be available to intercede. 
Monday. 
I cannot do it Monday because I couldn't get here on Sunday. 
I could do it Tuesday, I could do it Wednesday. 
I can't do it. 
I'm leaving tomorrow. 
And, you know, we'll work through that issue. 
I understand those things could come up in the course of the deposition, and I'll rule on those as I can if I'm not instantly available. 
How about later today? 
Let's get back on the record here, because we've got people waiting and I want to get going. 
But I will tell you in concluding that if it is at night, if you do it at night, I will give you my home number, and you can contact me so we get this finished. 
I will not attend the deposition, though. 
Anything else? 
Thank you, Your Honor. 
(The discussion in chambers was concluded.) We return in session, and I want to apologize to the assembled spectators and, of course, to the media. 
These things arise during trials from time to time. 
And we try to keep them at a minimum and we will keep them at a minimum during the trial. 
You may call your next witness. 
JULIE SMITH, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. 
Julie Ann Smith. 
And is that within the area covered by the Dover Area School District? 
And how long have you lived there? 
How old are they? 
Your daughter Katherine, what school does she attend? 
What grade is she in? 
Please tell us what you do for a living. 
Now, did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering approval of a biology textbook? 
And tell us, when did you learn that? 
And what was the basis for your knowledge? 
Do you remember what you read? 
Please tell us what you remember learning at that time. 
And do you remember anything else that you learned at that time? 
Okay. 
Yes, they did in August. 
Yes. 
I learned that from the paper, also. 
That they were going to have Of Pandas and People in the classroom as a supplemental text to the biology book. 
It was donated. 
Yes. 
In October, I believe it was, in '04. 
And did you attend that board meeting? 
And did you learn anything else from reading the newspapers at that time? 
Okay. 
Yes. 
It's the newsletter that came to the house in the mail that told -- that had the statement included that they were going to be teaching in the biology class. 
Well, it says it was February, so I'm assuming it was February. 
Do you believe that the board's actions in this case, the change to the biology curriculum and its other actions, have caused you harm? 
And can you tell us what harm you believe that it has caused you? 
And she looked at me and she said, Well, Mom, evolution is a lie, what kind of Christian are you, anyway, which I found to be very upsetting. 
Yeah, I asked her why she said that, and she said in school what they had been talking about or amongst her friends and what's going on. 
And how did that harm you? 
I have no problems with my faith and evolution. 
No further questions of this witness. 
Thank you, Your Honor. 
THOMPSON: Mrs. 
I represent the defendants in this case. 
Do you remember being involved in that deposition? 
Were you present in court for all the testimony that has been given in this trial? 
Now, whose testimony have you heard so far? 
I heard Barrie Callahan, Bryan Rehm. 
Okay. 
No. 
Yes, they called me. 
And so the ACLU contacted you, and you agreed to become a plaintiff in this case? 
Now, will you agree with me that the policy which is the subject matter of this lawsuit, the curriculum change in the biology for ninth grade, took place on October 18th, 2004? 
And that policy was implemented for the first time in January of 2005. 
That's correct. 
My son was in college. 
Yes, that's correct. 
She was in school. 
She was in grade ten. 
No, that's not true. 
No, but it would affect all the students at the school. 
This policy provided that the statement was read to ninth-grade biology students. 
I agree it was read to ninth-grade biology students. 
And your daughter had already graduated from the ninth grade? 
So at the time that this policy was implemented, both of your children were out of the ninth grade? 
Now, you indicated to your lawyer that you got involved because of newspaper articles that you read? 
Okay. 
Okay. 
So in 2004, prior to this -- prior to you becoming a plaintiff, you never attended a board meeting in that year? 
Okay. 
In 2003, you never attended a board meeting. 
No, I had attended board meetings previously. 
I asked you, in 2003, did you attend a board meeting? 
In -- Objection. 
One at a time. 
Thompson. 
Objection, arguing with the witness and beyond the scope of direct. 
It's appropriate cross-examination. 
I apologize, Your Honor. 
That happens. 
Why don't you restate your question, Mr. 
Okay. 
THOMPSON Is it true that you did not attend a board meeting in the year 2003? 
Is it true that you didn't attend a board meeting in 2002? 
And that was the year 2000, was it not? 
Mrs. 
You may. 
I would like you to direct your attention to Page 13, and I would like you to read out loud the question that you are asked starting with Line 18 and all the way down through that page and then going on to the next page, Page 14, and reading from Line 1 through Line 4. 
You want me to read out loud starting on 18? 
Gillen, and A represents your answer. 
"Let me just make sure I get you there and go on. 
So that the record will reflect, that was the question and now your answer, starting with Line 21. 
Yes. 
When I went to some board meetings, it was several years ago. 
Gillen asked you starting on Line 1? 
I am not familiar with the dates for the building project. 
That's correct. 
Yes. 
Does that seem right that the board meetings that you attended prior to being a plaintiff in a lawsuit was in the year 2000? 
So based upon the response that you gave to your attorney, is it a fair statement that you began as a plaintiff in this case in December, 2004, without ever having personally witnessed the actions of the Dover School Board as they debated and enacted the policy on which this lawsuit is based? 
HARVEY: Objection. 
BY MR. 
Now, wait. 
He asked whether you were present at any of the board meetings while they debated and then enacted this resolution, and I'm not aware of any testimony that they debated the resolution. 
I'll overrule the objection. 
Do you recall the question? 
Let's have the question read back, please. 
BY MR. 
In fact, the information that you were getting about what the school board was doing in 2004 came from newspapers. 
That's correct. 
That's correct. 
Is that correct? 
What were the two -- what were the newspapers that you were looking at during this time? 
Okay. 
That's correct. 
And it is true that you never spoke to any of the members of the Dover School Board about the issues that concerned you. 
That's correct. 
Is that correct? 
You never e-mailed them. 
That's correct. 
No. 
Is that correct? 
Okay. 
No. 
No. 
In fact, one of the issues in this case is this book Of Pandas and People. 
That's correct. 
I didn't feel that I could look at it. 
Well, did you make any effort to go and look at it? 
Now, your attorney referred to a newsletter that you received in February. 
Yes. 
Excuse me. 
Okay. 
I would like you to read from that newsletter on the top left-hand side in that box. 
We hope this publication will help those interested better understand the substance of the policy while eliminating any misconceptions some may have about the curriculum change. 
It was through this policy that you first learned about the statement that was going to be read. 
Okay. 
And so this newsletter was actually providing information to the residents of Dover as to what the actual newsletter was -- excuse me, what the actual statement was going to say. 
Yes. 
So you had no problem with the fact that the newsletter was being produced, even though you had a problem with the policy. 
No. 
Have you ever heard that? 
Okay. 
People that I work with, other people in the district. 
Is that correct? 
And the newspaper. 
Have you been interviewed? 
No. 
Objection. 
Do you want to respond to that Mr. 
Well, I think it's common experience and it's knowledge, it's common sense. 
I'll sustain the objection. 
BY MR. 
I said I was upset about it because I didn't find a problem with it with my religion. 
I have a problem with it because my daughter came home from school and she says to me, What kind of Christian are you, anyway? 
If you recall your deposition -- and I certainly will give you an opportunity to look at it if you don't recall it -- the incident that you're referring to, also you received information that your daughter was a member of a Bible club. 
Yes. 
Isn't that correct? 
And that it was -- she had a lot of friends who went to Protestant fundamental churches. 
Yes, she does. 
Isn't that correct? 
Plus they talked about it. 
I spoke to my deacon about this situation, and all I know is what he told me. 
He's a deacon at St. 
This is testimony in the case-in-chief, and we're afield. 
THOMPSON Now, the book Of Pandas and People, you don't mind that book being in the library, do you? 
You heard yesterday, if you attended the deposition of -- excuse me, the testimony of Mr. 
Did you hear that? 
Let Mr. 
Rehm testified that they had reached a compromise with some of the board members that they were going to allow the book Of Pandas and People in the science classroom. 
I'll overrule the objection. 
Rehm's testimony yesterday? 
Well, then go ahead. 
No further questions, Your Honor. 
Thank you, Mr. 
Then, ma'am, you may step down. 
And I don't think we have any exhibits to enter, do we? 
P127 is already in evidence. 
Your Honor, the plaintiffs call to the stand Plaintiff Christy Rehm. 
You certainly may. 
HARVEY Please tell us your name. 
Are you married, Mrs. 
Yes. 
Bryan Rehm. 
My children? 
I have a 14-year-old daughter, Alix, an eight-year-old daughter Paige, a seven-year-old son Ian, and a 15-month-old son Lucas. 
I mean your immediate family, you and your husband and your children. 
And how long have you lived there? 
And had you lived in Dover previously to that in your life? 
I grew up in Dover, I attended Dover High School, graduated from Dover High School. 
Grade level, okay, yes. 
I have a first-grader, and then obviously the baby is not in school yet. 
Yes. 
And my son is hearing-impaired, so he is charged with the education of Dover School District, meaning that they have to provide his education, but he actually attends classes at a hearing-impaired classroom. 
Yes. 
Yes, she is. 
As I said, I graduated from Dover High School. 
I received a BA from Millersville University in English, and I also have a degree in journalism, as well. 
Do you work outside the home? 
Where do you teach? 
And what grade do you teach? 
Did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering a change to -- was considering approval of a biology textbook? 
Do you remember when that was? 
I can't tell you exactly when. 
Well, because, like I said, my husband had been a teacher at the school, and he had sort of been directed by the high school principal to attend the meeting in support of the different things that were happening. 
And can you recall anything that happened at that meeting on June the 7th? 
But I recall Barrie Callahan speaking about the textbook. 
And she was speaking about the textbook, just questioning them. 
But I do know that she was upset with them about this textbook, the textbook process, the students not having a textbook. 
Do you remember if any board member spoke back to her in response to her questions? 
Bill Buckingham said to her -- and I know Bill Buckingham because at the time he lived down the street from my grandparents and for many years lived there. 
Unfortunately I was in the restroom at the time that Max Pell was speaking because -- my husband told you I was eight months pregnant. 
And so at the time when Max was speaking -- I believe that there were people who spoke in between she and Max Pell. 
I know him because he was my husband's student, though. 
Well, like I said, I was reentering the room from the bathroom, so I was sort of in the doorway. 
So the comments that were coming back were, I assume, directed at him. 
And I was very upset by that because I attended college and I don't feel as if I were brainwashed. 
At this time, no. 
I'd like you to take a look at what's been marked as Exhibit P46. 
Just take a moment to look at it. 
Do you have that in front of you? 
Have you ever seen it before? 
Did you see it at or around the date that it was published? 
What's the date on it? 
Who is the author? 
And can you tell us what publication its from? 
Just now I skimmed it, yes. 
Yes. 
Mr. 
It's important that having refreshed your recollection, if it jogs something or re-creates a memory, that you testify in answer to Mr. 
Do not look back and read from the article as you're testifying, please. 
Yes. 
BY MR. 
Now, do you remember if you attended another meeting of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors approximately a week later on June the 14th? 
And why did you attend that meeting? 
In addition, I was very angry when I left the June 7th meeting just because of the demeanor of the school board and the things that were being said. 
And so I pretty well made sure, at the beginning of that meeting, which went on for quite a long time, that I wouldn't miss anything, so I took care of my bathroom needs beforehand. 
My sister had graduated that year, and I attended the commencement ceremony. 
And essentially she was speaking up for the teachers and the biology textbook. 
She's the department chairperson, and, actually, I had her as a science teacher. 
After she spoke, Bill Buckingham had made a comment to her about her -- where did she get her law degree from. 
Do you want to put a question on the floor? 
BY MR. 
I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't getting my meetings mixed up. 
I'm sorry, I recall something else, as well. 
And Charlotte Buckingham I recall really being the only person who got up to stand in defense of the school board, and she was Mr. 
Buckingham's wife. 
And she also talked about school prayer and the need for school prayer in that speech that she had prepared. 
And many other members of the community spoke, as well. 
HARVEY Did your husband speak? 
In fact, he hadn't prepared to speak, but he was very upset, as many people in the audience were, and he stood up to speak. 
Objection, Your Honor. 
The question was, did your husband speak. 
My next question was going to be simply if you could tell us what -- but I think she's already told us what she can recall her husband said. 
That moots the objection, and you can move to the next question. 
HARVEY Do you remember Bill Buckingham speaking at this meeting? 
There were not many meetings where Bill Buckingham did not speak. 
And it seemed to me sort of an inappropriate apology because -- or maybe "inappropriate" is not the correct word, but not a sincere apology because almost immediately after he had given his apology, he started doing the same things that he had always done, which was to demean the public, to say negative comments. 
Yes. 
He made comments about the liberals in black robes coming and taking away our freedoms in the school. 
Now, did you attend any other meetings of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors that summer? 
And did you attend any meetings that fall? 
And can you just tell us briefly what you can recall about that meeting? 
Jen Miller spoke, although I didn't really know who she was at the time. 
I recall Bertha Spahr again speaking. 
And, again, other members of the community spoke at that meeting. 
No, we didn't. 
During the board meeting? 
No. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Do you remember anyone requesting access to -- Oh, yes. 
Yes. 
And we wanted to hear that for ourselves, so my husband had previously requested the tapes and then at that meeting he stood again to request the tapes. 
And do you remember if any members of the school board spoke in response to either your husband or Barrie Callahan with respect to the subject of the tapes? 
Barrie -- I'm sorry, Alan Bonsell said very clearly that -- Dr. 
And additionally, Alan Bonsell made the comment that they couldn't release the tapes because after speaking with their solicitor, there would possibly be legal issues, ramifications if they released the tapes. 
Mrs. 
Yes, absolutely. 
Well, in numerous ways. 
On the other hand, they've said that it enhances state standards and critical thinking. 
And I don't necessarily think that's just in my mind. 
The way I dress when I go to work tells my students something. 
So I think we're charged with, you know, having an ethical decision to make when we walk into the classroom, the things that we say and the things that we do, and so I think that's very important. 
And if that's what's happening in the Dover school system and my children are in that school system, that they're routinely establishing practices that is not teaching in the classroom, then that's shameful. 
It's not just the biology class that has been affected by this. 
It used to be a weekly occurrence. 
Also, intelligent design is not a scientific concept. 
And because I don't subscribe to that particular brand of religion, I feel that I and my daughter, my family, are being ridiculed, and my daughter feels the pressure. 
And I have faith in myself and in my husband and in my pastor to do that, not the school system. 
Muise's cross-examination of the witness. 
(Recess taken.) Mr. 
Thank you, Your Honor. 
MUISE Good afternoon, Ms. 
Your oldest child is 14 years old. 
Yes. 
Yes, she is. 
Is that correct? 
After looking at her syllabus, it appears that evolution comes later in the course. 
Now, you testified about two -- or several meetings, but two meetings in particular I want to ask you some questions about. 
Yes. 
Buckingham? 
There were statements made by many of the school board members that I found objectionable. 
Buckingham always seemed to say very inappropriate things. 
It's just that I didn't give much credit to Noel Weinrich's comments because he would say things like, Darwin's at least what, 60 years old, a theory becomes a theory if you say it over and over again. 
But they were all very outspoken. 
Yes. 
It very well could be. 
But the statements that you testified to and the controversy that you were describing was surrounding the purchase or selection of that particular biology book for the school district. 
Yes, it was definitely the Miller-Levine textbook. 
And, in fact, the school district purchased the Miller-Levine biology book to be used as the primary text for the ninth-grade biology class. 
Yes. 
Yes, with the dragonfly on it. 
She has the book, yes. 
Have I looked through the book? 
She wasn't given a copy of Pandas and People, was she? 
don't agree with the age of, you know, the earth and their opinion. 
And I do not believe the same things as the board members who adopted that statement. 
But I do know that, in its original context, it was creationism that was being used. 
And so, again, you're associating Young Earth creationism with intelligent design? 
If you could be shown that intelligent design does not require the action of a supernatural creator and, in fact, is based on observable and empirical facts, would you change your opinion? 
Would I believe it? 
But I suppose that if intelligent design could follow scientific methods, then -- and it were proven to be scientific by scientists, it was accepted by scientific communities, then I would have no reason not to accept that. 
Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution will be taught in this class pursuant to the Pennsylvania academic standards? 
And as far as I know, that is the case, because Dover says that it is a standards-based school, and so I assume that when they say that and they say that students have to pass certain material before they can be advanced into new material, that they would have to be abiding by the state standards. 
To following state standards, no, I have no objection. 
Yes, the PSSA test, yes. 
To my students taking a PSSA test, well, you know, I -- being an educator, I'm not in love with PSSA tests or standardized tests. 
I would hope that they would provide lots of academic information on those tests. 
I'm sorry, can you repeat that? 
Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standard-based district, the class instruction is going to focus on preparing students to achieve proficiency on those standard-based tests that we were just describing? 
Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standards-driven district, that students will not be tested on the intelligent design theory? 
And from your previous answer, I believe you do understand that the Dover School District purchased, for its ninth-grade biology class, the edition of the Miller and Levine biology book. 
Yes. 
No, I do not. 
Actually, did you ask me if it's my understanding or if -- If it's your understanding. 
It follows state standards, of course. 
And I did look at that section, and I looked basically through the book. 
Has Dr. 
Maybe we should ask. 
I feel, actually, that there are topics that probably could be explored in more detail, but I understand that there are limitations within any textbook that you have to hit on core concepts. 
Is it your understanding that it presents Darwin's theory of evolution in a manner that is consistent with its standing in the scientific community? 
But as much as I know about what the high school science standards say, it would be in standing with that. 
I mean, I can absolutely say that without knowing everything about Darwin or knowing everything about science. 
No, I would have no reason to believe that. 
Yes. 
Right, just as no student is required to read anything that's in the library unless they choose to. 
No, absolutely not. 
Are you aware of that? 
In fact, there were different drafts of that statement that I had seen. 
Because it was again read in, I believe, like May, and there was a change from that point in time, unless I'm incorrect and that is the change that I'm thinking of. 
Yes, I am aware that there was a change. 
Yes. 
Actually, I am, because I recall them -- an organization actually sending the library those books, because there was controversy in those books being put in there, too. 
They're in the library? 
I'm assuming that they had gotten there. 
No, I do not. 
Ma'am, you may step down. 
Your Honor, plaintiffs call to the stand Plaintiff Beth Eveland. 
Sure. 
DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. 
-- is it Ms. 
Mrs. 
Eveland. 
And how long have you lived there? 
Are you married? 
Do you have children? 
How many children do you have? 
And how old are they? 
And what schools do they attend? 
And do you have plans for your children to continue to attend public schools in Dover? 
And do you work outside the home? 
And when was that? 
Now, I'd like you to look at what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P46. 
Well, what is 46? 
Well, I don't know what the question is. 
We'll hold that thought, and you can proceed with the question, because all we have is the exhibit that is a newspaper article. 
Yes, I did. 
Yes, I did. 
It would have been approximately June 15th, June 16th. 
When I remember that I attended this board meeting? 
In preparation for trial, looking back through my deposition testimony and thinking about things that had happened, it occurred to me that, you know, I was there at that June meeting. 
I remember Casey Brown, one of the board members at the time, discussing, during the board meeting with the board, that she felt they were, I'm paraphrasing, treading, you know, on -- they were treading closely to violating the Pennsylvania State Board of Education regulations on religion in the classroom. 
Yes, I do. 
I remember Bill Buckingham making the statement, years ago somebody died on the Cross, can't someone take a stand for Him. 
I was shocked. 
And did you do anything in response to that? 
I had wrote a letter to the editor. 
I submitted it to the three local newspapers, York Daily Record, York Sunday News, and York Dispatch. 
Yes, I did. 
Now, please turn to what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P56. 
Do you have it in front of you? 
And can you tell us what it is? 
And I'm going to ask you to read this letter into the record. 
Objection, Your Honor. 
Say it again. 
Objection, hearsay. 
She's going to be reading in the letter, the contents of the statement. 
They're obviously offering it for the truth of the matter. 
She wrote the letter. 
BY MR. 
"As a parent in the Dover Area School District, I must convey my shock and utter dismay at William Buckingham's comments regarding the search for new biology texts for the high school. 
Buckingham's comments as quoted in Wednesday's York Daily Record: 'This country wasn't founded on Muslim beliefs or evolution. 
"In partnership with family and community to educate students, we emphasize sound, basic skills and nurture the diverse needs of our students as they strive to become lifelong learners and contributing members of our global society. 
How sad that a member of our own school board would be so closed-minded and not want to carry on the mission of Dover schools. 
If it was simply a matter of selecting a text that gives two contradicting scientific theories equal time, that would be an entirely different matter, but it's not. 
"Mr. 
Yes, it was. 
Yes, I did. 
It was a published response noting Heather Geesey as the author. 
I believe it was either the York Dispatch or the York Daily Record. 
It was published in the York Daily Record. 
Yes, I did. 
Objection, Your Honor. 
She has no personal knowledge. 
Do you want to respond to the objection? 
We submitted an exhibit list to the other side, and we were told there were no authentication issues with respect to any of this, so there's no question about the authenticity of this, nor do I understand -- and further, it's not offered for the truth of the matter asserted, so there's no hearsay objection. 
My understanding was that there was not an authentication issue. 
I did agree with Steve that we -he has an affidavit from someone who has indicated they have collected newspaper articles. 
Very well. 
Geesey to the York Daily Record. 
That is correct, Your Honor. 
Now, counsel for the plaintiff is indicating the letter as being produced on the issue of -- or to show notice, obviously, on the effect prong. 
But the purpose of the letter is under the second prong. 
That's one of the issues in the case. 
All right. 
Our position on that we've articulated. 
Well, I think that you reserved that argument. 
I'm inclined -- because it's a bench trial, I'll admit it conditionally. 
BY MR. 
"This letter is in regard to the comments made by Beth Eveland from York Township in the June York Sunday News. 
In fact, if you read the statement, it says to educate our students so that they can be contributing members of society. 
It is just a fact. 
"The definition of 'theory' is merely a speculative or an ideal circumstance. 
You can teach creationism without it being Christianity. 
That made me question, first of all, was she writing on behalf of just herself or on behalf of the whole school board since it was signed Dover Area School Board Director, and I sensed a religious intonation. 
All of them. 
Yes, I was. 
No, I didn't. 
Yes, I do. 
I feel it's my duty, as a parent, to introduce any kind of faith-based concept to my children, not the Dover Area School District. 
It's just something that I feel strongly that my husband and I, that's our task to bring faith to our children. 
No further questions. 
Cross-examine, Mr. 
CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. 
Yes, she is. 
That's correct. 
Is that correct? 
I believe in your deposition you indicated in your day-to-day events you try to spark your children's interest in science? 
And you believe it's important to make science interesting for your children? 
You don't have any specific training in evolutionary theory. 
No, I don't. 
Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution is going to be taught pursuant to the state academic standards? 
And that students will be tested on subjects that are based on those standards, including the theory of evolution? 
Is it also your understanding that it is a standards-based district, so classroom instruction will focus on achieving those standard-based assessments in which they will eventually be tested on? 
And intelligent design is not part of those standard-based assessments? 
And these board meetings that you attended in June, the controversy was surrounding the purchase of a biology text for the class. 
Yes. 
I believe at the time it was the Miller and Levine biology text. 
Buckingham's objections to that biology text which precipitated some of these statements that you were referring to in your direct testimony? 
And what action did the board actually take with regard to the biology book? 
With regard to the biology book for the ninth-grade class. 
Have you seen that book? 
Now, my understanding is you went to these board meetings in June because of the controversy over the biology book? 
You said you just skimmed this biology book that was at the center of the controversy? 
In those two minutes that you spent actually looking at the book that was the center of this controversy, was there anything in that two-minute review that you saw that you objected to? 
I just basically looked through the table of contents quickly. 
That's my understanding, yes. 
Fairly contentious, yes. 
Now, is it your recollection that the first time the Pandas book was mentioned was during the July meeting that you attended? 
I cannot give you a specific date. 
How about mentioning the theory of intelligent design, do you recall when you may have heard that theory first mentioned? 
Buckingham and Mr. 
Yeah. 
And I believe the first -- as I testified earlier, the first meeting I actually had attended was the second meeting in June. 
And during this conversation, he approached you and asked if you had read or were familiar with some comments that he had quoted in the paper, and those were Mr. 
Correct? 
And he asked you what your thoughts were about those comments? 
And he also asked you if you would ask for Mr. 
Correct? 
And you told him that you didn't think that was going to happen? 
And your sense for why he asked you this was that you thought he was trying to elicit something sensational for his paper? 
BY MR. 
And I'd like you to read, if you look on Page 64, read from Line 18 through 25, and then we'll continue on the next page once you finish that. 
I told him just simply what I had read. 
"Yeah. 
It was my first board meeting. 
Maldonado about the happenings with the board. 
For which paper? 
I said earlier Mr. 
I believe he is actually a reporter for the Daily Record. 
Heidi Bubb quite a bit? 
Well, I don't recall whether or not I did say after suit was filed, but I'll take your word for it if it's in my deposition testimony. 
I mean, if that's what it says in my deposition testimony, that's what I testified to at the time. 
Okay. 
Heidi Bubb. 
"She would generally approach me after the meetings. 
She would ask me occasionally my thoughts, public comment, what I thought -- why I thought the board was doing what they were doing, those such things." Now, back in July or August, 2004, you had communications with the National Center for Science Education? 
I believe you joined the Listserv? 
And you also had a discussion with them regarding an interview with the AP? 
Did you do that interview? 
Ma'am, do you understand that the statement that's going to be read to the students in the ninth-grade biology class was modified in June of 2005? 
And do you understand that that modification indicated that the book Of Pandas and People would be in the library along with other resources regarding intelligent design? 
Do you have any objection to that? 
Now, you testified about the harm that you've received based on these statements and the comments and the actions of the board. 
Okay. 
"Question: Is there anything else that the board has done here in connection with the curriculum change that provides a basis for your complaint? 
It may just be a big misunderstanding." Were you testifying truthfully when you answered that question? 
No further questions, Your Honor. 
No, Your Honor. 
Then, ma'am, we thank you. 
This is probably an appropriate time for us to end today. 
P46 is the York Daily Record article. 
Is that right, Mr. 
Yes. 
Yes, Your Honor. 
The objection is noted. 
And I will note the objection. 
All right. 
P60 is the letter from School Board Member Geesey to the editor again. 
Over the objection already of the defendants, we'll reaffirm that, but you can make any other objections you want to on the record, but I think that was thoroughly argued at that time. 
All right. 
With everybody's indulgence, I would expect to go to approximately 5 o'clock, no later than 5 o'clock tomorrow to make up for the time that we lose during the morning session. 
on Thursday. 
(Whereupon, the proceedings were adjourned at 4:20 p.m.) CERTIFICATION I hereby certify that the proceedings and evidence are contained fully and accurately in the notes taken by me on the within proceedings and that this copy is a correct transcript of the same. 
Lori A. 
APPEARANCES: LAWRENCE LESSIG, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf of the Petitioners. 
OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. 
John D. 
Mr. 
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIG ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS Mr. 
Petitioners submit such a blanket extension of existing terms exceeds Congress's power under the Copyright Clause and it violates the First Amendment. 
The Government has argued as if petitioners had advanced a general theory of the Copyright Clause, or a general constraint under which Congress must operate. 
Lessig, I'll tell you what bothers me about your position, and that is that Congress has extended the term so often through the years, and if you are right, don't we run the risk of upsetting previous extensions of time? 
Justice, we do not believe that the very first act extended terms at all. 
The 1790 act granted a term for works that already existed in precisely the pattern that the English parliament had done in the Statute of Anne in 1710, and that the English parliament did with monopolies, general monopolies in the statute. 
That's right. 
Those extensions, however, were never challenged in any court and certainly not considered by this Court. 
This is the first time I can remember where this Court has been pointed to changed circumstances as a reason to reaffirm the Framers' values, because for most of this period, Mr. 
Now, it's not the case that the earlier extensions were not questioned on constitutional grounds. 
That's right, there is no court challenge. 
Lessig, your theory, as I understand it, regardless of changed circumstances or not, your basic theory, which on your argument would have been appropriate at any time historically, is that there has at least got to be the possibility of a kind of a causal connection between the extension and the promotion or inducement for the creation of some subsequent work, but why is that any more plausible a reading of the Promotion Clause than simply a reading that says the Promotion Clause requires that there be a general scheme in place, which overall tends to promote or induce, and part of one aspect of that scheme can be that the -- that at the discretion of Congress the period of protection is extended from time to time? 
Justice Souter, the reason is exactly related to the point I began with, that this is a case about limits and not about discretion. 
That's right. 
-- of clause? 
Do you say the same thing for scope? 
-- the expanded applications of copyright, and Congress itself extends the scope from time to time. 
I -- Why -- or -- and if you wouldn't, why not? 
To make that very specific, if we agree with you, does that mean that we would, in principle, have to hold the 1976 extension unconstitutional? 
Now they're extending it life of the author plus 70. 
And if the former is, the chaos that would ensue would be horrendous. 
Whether this Court would apply such a holding in this case to that act is a question that would have to be resolved under the retrospective -- Maybe we ought to find another theory, then. 
It's been grounded in their claim that the treaty power creates some special power. 
That's certainly true, and we also believe that, for the reasons averted to by amicus AOL in this case and the reasons you've just suggested, the disruption in that context under the retrospectivity cases Ryder and Reynoldsville Casket Company would be sufficient to fit it within the, quote, "severe disruption exception" to the retrospectivity. 
I just don't see any empirical evidence for that. 
Nothing in our Copyright Clause claim hangs upon the empirical assertion about impeding progress. 
Well, perhaps I misunderstood. 
Well, the thrust certainly -- I thought that's the whole underpinning of your case. 
Well, but you want more than that. 
We want the right to copy verbatim works that should be in the public domain and would be in the public domain but for a statute that cannot be justified under ordinary First Amendment analysis or under a proper reading of the limits built into the Copyright 16 Clause. 
Lessig, on your First Amendment argument I don't see where the retroactivity-prospectivity comes in, because -- I follow your argument under the Copyright Clause, but if you're saying that the time is too long, the public domain should get this stuff sooner rather than later, would you explain to me how your prospectivity-retrospective line fits into your First Amendment claim? 
LESSIG: Justice, we've argued that it would be inappropriate in this case for the Court to consider the prospective line until they decide whether the case, whether the prospective and retrospective is severable, and we submit it's an easy case to show that it's not. 
-- argument you're making that as, I take it, an argument independent of, it doesn't hang on your Copyright Clause argument. 
I -- That's right. 
When Congress legislates prospectively, it has no way to know who's going to benefit from its extension. 
Your First Amendment test is a stringent one. 
If you take that position, I don't see how you make the retroactive-prospective line work. 
Well, Justice, that certainly is the reason the Government offers for this pattern. 
So that line is already drawn in the practice that Congress has adopted, but our point is, the only way to assure -- But Congress has -- or, you're not disputing that Congress has always made these extensions, both retroactive and prospective? 
In 1976 -- Because that was what you said -- that's -- the pattern under the CTEA is identical to the one in the '76 act. 
So they have extended it to both. 
And so I'm asking you -- perhaps I'm missing it. 
It seems that you're just saying there that 70 years is an unreasonable -- is not necessary. 
And it doesn't serve an important purpose. 
Whereas if you don't accept the Copyright Clause claim, then, in order to make the First Amendment analysis we've simply got to say, well, gee, is the promotion of useful art and so on more important than the public domain, and can we say that that allows a distinction between 50 years and 70 years? 
Our Copyright Clause argument is certainly a way of framing why extensions of subsisting terms cannot be seen to promote the First Amendment interest of speech at all. 
Let's assume we don't -- for the sake of argument here, let's assume we don't accept the Copyright Clause argument. 
Yes, of course we do. 
I mean, at that point I'm where Justice Ginsburg is. 
The First Amendment argument we've argued in our brief is with respect to the retrospective extension, and the First Amendment argument is, that needs to -- No, but that's the Copyright Clause argument, and it seems to me you're saying, okay, we then apply that in First Amendment analysis, which allows us to make a coherent intermediate scrutiny argument. 
What I'm saying is not that it's the retrospectivity that makes the First Amendment argument troubling -- I mean, that drives our First Amendment argument. 
Well -- I mean, this would be quite a new proposition. 
-- in effect. 
Justice, that's right. 
It didn't include the derivative rights, it didn't include the display rights, and it certainly -- Right. 
-- because it does take a lot of things out of the public domain that one would think that someone in Congress would want to think hard about. 
But having done that, it's very difficult to find the basis in the Constitution for saying it isn't a limited term. 
-- but is it not limited? 
Right, and we submit the Framers had something very different in mind than the rule against perpetuities. 
What was the problem they were solving? 
But does it violate the Constitution? 
Well, you know, certainly what is happening in the country today in the way of congressional -- under the Commerce Clause is totally different than what the Framers had in mind, but we've never felt that that was the criterion. 
That's right. 
In many respects, Mr. 
But isn't -- Can I ask you about one of the limits, just focusing on the Copyright Clause and the progress of science and useful arts? 
We're happy to adopt a broader interpretation of what promote the progress is about, within the general framework that the Framers established in light of the English practice, which was a quid pro quo. 
In your view, that's perfectly constitutional? 
My view is -- Well, I thought that was the question you were getting, and I thought you were saying -- I must have misunderstood. 
No. 
But this Court's opinion in Graham and in Feist made clear that it could not extend copyrights to works in the public domain. 
No. 
Justice Ginsburg, we have no quarrel with the objective of harmonization fitting within the "promote the progress of science" understanding subject to constitutional limitations. 
The analogy doesn't seem to work. 
All that I'm suggesting is, here is a plain meaning of the term that gives effect to the constitutional limit in a way that assures that, in fact, the limit is respected, contrary to the Government's argument, which, in effect, permits Congress the power perpetually to extend terms. 
Very well, Mr. 
OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT Mr. 
That is that the first Congress explicitly gave copyright protection to the authors of any books already printed as well as explicitly the owners of existing copyrights. 
As this Court explained 100 and some years ago in its Burrows-Giles opinion, such constructions are accorded very great weight and, as that Court went on to say, when consistent and unchallenged for over a century are almost conclusive that consistent construction by Congress of its authority under the Copyright and Patent Clause now has lasted from the 105th -- from the first through the 105th Congress. 
It is consistent with what the law of England was from the Statute of Anne -- Yes, but take one of the early extensions, just extending a -- an already granted patent to an inventor for an extra 10 years. 
Maybe Congress did it, but maybe it acted improperly when it did it. 
Well, that -- it seems to me that there may be -- this is -- the clause itself is a very, very broad grant. 
I don't think -- and the petitioners expressly disclaim the assertion that any substantive limitations in the "Promote the- Clause. 
It's not just the right -- No, the reason for the right in the first place was to encourage invention. 
It includes the dissemination of the work, not necessarily -- Dissemination alone? 
I'm -- for purposes of my thinking about it, I'd like to know, imagine we have just dissemination. 
The only justification for the extension, there is no other, is dissemination of a work that is already in existence. 
Well, I think that it could very well be yes, for the reason that in the 1790 statute the Congress specifically was aware of -- that there were State copyright laws which didn't last as long as the Federal statute. 
So in your opinion, in my example, if you recall it -- It's -- -- your answer would be, if Congress tomorrow wants to give a copyright to a publisher solely for the purpose of reproducing and disseminating Ben Jonson, Shakespeare, it can do it? 
Well, because I don't think that a per -- I don't think there is a per se rule that should apply here because this is a grant of Congress, to Congress to exercise its judgment as to what may be beneficial. 
The harms that seem to be caused by it, the extension, I've listed as follows, approximate numbers, made up, but magnitude correct. 
Harm number 2. 
The cost of that, on my numbers in here, made up, at least a billion dollars, or they can't find the people at all and get permission, an innumerable cost, un -- valuable cost to people who want to use it. 
On the plus side I see uniformity, dissemination, and -- now, you tell me. 
It's carried out, as the economists do, to three decimal points, divide by 100 for the probability of your ever having such a work, and you get virtually zero, no difference between this and a perpetual copyright. 
We -- the Copyright Clause incentive provides incentives not just for -- not just to the creators, but to the disseminators, the publishers, the broadcasters, the film companies. 
Well, I think again that illustrates why the authority is vested in Congress to make these judgments rather than in courts to make these affect whether the judgments, because we're not talking about the effect on an individual author, or an individual creator. 
I -- one wonders what was in the principle 13 difficult principle given to Congress and has been exercised so repeatedly out there that would ever kick in? 
What I submit -- well, first of all, even the petitioners acknowledge that, as far as prospective limits are concerned, that isn't a judgment that this Court is being made to ask and, in fact, the petitioners acknowledge that it isn't a judgment that this Court should make, so the only point that the petitioners -- Well, if Congress says we're going to grant this copyright indefinitely, forever -- That would seem -- -- that violates the limited term, does it not? 
And anything that -- In Victorian England you could buy a box seat for 900 years. 
Well -- I mean, we know that. 
Something that was the functional equivalent of an unlimited time would violate the Copyright Clause, but the Framers specifically did not put in numbers. 
Thomas Jefferson suggested that a number should be put in. 
Why -- their argument is precisely that, a limited time doesn't mean anything unless it means, once you have established the limit for works that have been created under that limit, that's the end. 
With the exception of a limitation which illustrates the distinction between forever on the one hand and a definite number on the other, is there any limitation in the clause? 
The work has already been created, but the artists that are creating works day in and day out take into consideration the fact that Congress has decided, there's an ease of administration -- But for them, they get the benefit of the longer term if you don't apply it to an existing copyright. 
We're not just -- because we're not just talking about the author. 
There were numerous hearings, there were testimony by the folks that represent the same position as petitioners here as to why this shouldn't be done, why it should be that this done. 
I mean, it's a penny on 1,000, or probably a lot less than that, frankly. 
The -- as we described in our brief, in pages 34 through 36, I believe it is in our brief, that the concerns about the limitation on exploitation and the limitation of a copyright period in Europe is based upon the country of origin of the work and the shortest time available. 
The petitioners are only saying that there shall be a per se rule that the word "limited times," means unchangeable times. 
That -- but the answer to that, Justice Ginsburg, I submit, is found in the Necessary and Proper Clause, and this Court's interpretation of the Necessary and Proper Clause as to the extent that this Court would find or not find that the judgment made by Congress with respect to the implementation of this very broad power is convenient or useful in terms of the achievement of the 2 goals. 
Is that your argument? 
Is it also your argument that even if you cannot trace that kind, or at least plausibly argue that there could be that kind of a causal benefit, that it would still be constitutional, because you should judge the extension simply as contributing to a general system, one feature of which is that from time to time there may be retrospective extensions, and so long as that general system induces the creation of works, or the dissemination of works, or the preservation of works, so long as the general system works, there is no review, no limitation on the tinkering that can be done, even retrospectively? 
I think that's a fair statement of an argument that we have made and articulated in the brief -- Okay. 
Yes, Justice Scalia, and the examples that are -- Can I ask you, why is it enormously inequitable if they get exactly what they were entitled to at the time they made the work? 
I think that's not an unreasonable expectation at all, Justice Stevens, because that was the premise of the -- That is the way it's always been done. 
That's -- But there was one -- Justice Breyer brought up Ben Jonson, so -- this case doesn't involve works that are already in the public domain. 
Why not? 
If the equity argument under the Necessary and Proper Clause justifies extension of the copyright for those whose copyright will expire tomorrow if it's not extended, in order to put them on parity with those getting copyrights for new works, why doesn't it apply to the copyright, the holder of the copyright that expired yesterday? 
Something that has already gone into the public domain, which other individuals or companies or entities may then have acquired an interest in, or rights to, or be involved in disseminating -- And if you don't -- This is a rational -- If you don't draw the line there, then Ben Jonson certainly gets recopyrighted. 
Oh, I concede that it's a bright line, but it's a bright line that would have -- Except Congress chose this one and didn't choose the other one. 
I agree, and this Court has -- we're not just talking about the judgment of the Congress of the -- the 105th Congress in 1998. 
Well, there was an interest in having a uniform rule, and that's precisely why the Framers created the Copyright Clause in the Constitution, but there was copyright protection in some States, there wasn't copyright protection in other States, and what we know from the decision of this Court in the Wheaton decision is that there was not a common law copyright in existence. 
Now, the petitioners make this quid pro quo to draw the line as well as in how long a line I agree, and this Court has -- just talking about the judgment of the Congress the 105th Congress in 1998. 
That simply does not make any sense. 
Go ahead. 
I wonder, is there any review there? 
I mean, that would seem -- where this equity idea is the camel and the production idea is the gnat, and is there any -- can we say something like that, or does Congress have total leeway in respect to -- Well, it -- -- who they want to give the money to, basically? 
We have the adoption of copyright terms which are consistent, generally speaking, with copyright terms which exist in the European Union, our principal competitor, and in connection with international treaties. 
You might have made the balance, that delicate balance that this Court has referred to, in another way, but that is something that Congress, through its ability to gather facts and make balances, is quintessentially capable of doing, and that is where the Framers vested the responsibility, and what this statute does is to favor, if at all, the creator with respect to the utilization of these rights, as opposed to the person who wishes to copy the creator. 
Thank you. 
Mr. 
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIG ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS General Olson has been perfectly clear in setting out the structure of the Government's argument. 
Now, were this the first time this Court had considered Congress's copyright authority, that might be a plausible argument, but the very first time this Court ever struck down a law of Congress as exceeding Article I, section 8 power was in the context of the Copyright Clause. 
The Feist opinion very clearly sets out the implied limits, a per se limit for originality, for the reasons Justice Breyer was trying to get me to say. 
Those limits make no sense under the reasoning the Government has offered. 
Now, we offer a simple way to make this clear, express limit make sense, and that is precisely the understanding we suggest that existed in 1790. 
Now, that might be a delicate balance, that they give the author 99.8 percent and the public .2 percent, but in my mind, that's delicate in a very different sense of that term. 
Thank you, Mr. 
The case is submitted. 
Good evening, from Wake Chapel at Wake Forest University at Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Welcome to this second election 2000 debate between the Republican candidate for president, George W. 
These debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
Only the subjects tonight and the questions are mine. 
The only prevailing rule is that no single response can ever, ever exceed two minutes. 
Good evening, Governor Bush, Vice President Gore. 
Let's see if we can do the same tonight, or come close. 
One of you is about to be elected the leader of the single-most powerful nation in the world, economically, financially, militarily, diplomatically, you name it. 
I have, I have. 
What's in the best interests of our people? 
Is it in our nation's interests? 
Having a hemisphere that is free for trade and peaceful is in our nation's interests. 
I've thought a lot about what it means to be the president. 
He's a vice presidential nominee who represents -- I think people got to see why I picked him. 
One of the things I've done in Texas is I've been able to put together a good team of people. 
The goals ought to be an education system that leaves no child behind, Medicare for our seniors, a Social Security system that's safe and secure, foreign policy that's in our nation's interest, and a strong military, and then bring people together to achieve those goals. 
So I've thought long and hard about the honor of being the President of the United States. 
Yes, Jim. 
I see it as a question of values. 
And I don't think that's just the kind of exaggeration that we take pride in as Americans. 
As soon as they have a change that allows the people to speak freely, they're wanting to develop some kind of blueprint that will help them be like us more, freedom, free markets, political freedom. 
The power of example is America's greatest power in the world. 
It means addressing the problems of injustice and inequity, along the lines of race and ethnicity here at home, because in all these other places around the world where they're having these terrible problems, when they feel hope, it is often because they see in us a reflection of their potential. 
We've got to deal with things like racial profiling. 
Should the people of the world look at the United States, Governor, and say, should they fear us, should they welcome our involvement, should they see us as a friend, everybody in the world? 
It really depends upon how our nation conducts itself in foreign policy. 
If we're a humble nation, but strong, they'll welcome us. 
And yet project strength in a way that promotes freedom. 
We're a freedom-loving nation and if we're an arrogant nation they'll view us that way, but if we're a humble nation they'll respect us. 
I agree with that. 
I think that one of the problems that we have faced in the world is that we are so much more powerful than any single nation has been in relationship to the rest of the world than at any time in history, that I know about, anyway. 
But I think that we also have to have a sense of mission in the world. 
The fact that we have the strongest economy in history today is not good enough. 
But the fact that it is so strong enables us to project the power for good that America can represent. 
Yes, it does. 
We do have an obligation, but we can't be all things to all people. 
We can lend money but we have to do it wisely. 
So we have to be guarded in our generosity. 
New question. 
The first priority has to be on ending the violence, dampening down the tensions that have arisen there. 
The use of diplomacy in this situation has already, well, it goes hour-by-hour and day-by-day now. 
But in the last 24 hours there has been some subsiding of the violence there. 
But one thing I would say where diplomacy is concerned, Israel should feel absolutely secure about one thing. 
They are historic, they are strong, and they are enduring. 
Governor? 
Like the vice president, I call on Chairman Arafat to have his people pull back to make the peace. 
I want everybody to know should I be the president Israel's going to be our friend. 
Secondly, that I think it's important to reach out to moderate Arab nations, like Jordan and Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. 
And that's going to be particularly important in dealing not only with situations such as now occurring in Israel, but with Saddam Hussein. 
The sanctions are being violated. 
One of the reasons why I think it's important for this nation to develop an anti-ballistic missile system that we can share with our allies in the Middle East if need be to keep the peace is to be able to say to the Saddam Husseins of the world or the Iranians, don't dare threaten our friends. 
After all, a lot of the energy is produced from the Middle East, and so I appreciate what the administration is doing. 
So you don't believe, Vice President Gore, that we should take sides and resolve this right now? 
Well, we stand with Israel, but we have maintained the ability to serve as an honest broker. 
I do. 
When it comes to timetables it can't be the United States timetable as to how discussions take place. 
This current administration's worked hard to keep the parties at the table. 
But it won't be on my timetable, it will be on the timetable that people are comfortable with in the Middle East. 
That's hard to tell. 
Saddam Hussein, you mean, get him out of there? 
We don't know -- there are no inspectors now in Iraq, the coalition that was in place isn't as strong as it used to be. 
We don't want him fishing in troubled waters in the Middle East. 
You feel that is a failure of the Clinton administration? 
But the fact is that that's the situation that was left when I got there. 
Now I want to go further. 
I know the governor's not necessarily saying that but, you know, all of these flights that have come in, all of them have been in accordance with the sanctions regime, I'm told, except for three where they notified, and they're trying to break out of the box, there's no question about it. 
Did he state your position correctly, you're not calling for eliminating the sanctions, are you? 
Let's go on to Milosevic and Yugoslavia, and it falls under the area of our military power. 
Should the fall of Milosevic be seen as a triumph for U.S. 
I'm pleased the president made the decision he made. 
Yes, I think it is. 
I don't think he would have fallen had we not used the force. 
I didn't think he necessarily made the right decision to take land troops off the table right before we committed ourselves offensively, but nevertheless, it worked. 
It is important for NATO to have it work. 
And one of the reasons I felt so strongly that the United States needed to participate was because of our relations with NATO, and NATO is going to be an important part of keeping the peace in the future. 
Remains to be seen, however, whether or not there's going to be a political settlement in Kosovo, and I certainly hope there is one. 
I hope that they put the troops on the ground so that we can withdraw our troops and focus our military on fighting and winning war. 
When I was in the senate before I became vice president I was pushing for stronger action against Milosevic. 
Already just today the members of his political party said that they were going to ignore the orders of the new president of Serbia, and that they question his legitimacy, and he's still going to try to be actively involved. 
He should be held accountable. 
In some of the discussions we've had about when it's appropriate for the U.S. 
ought to get involved with troops. 
Trying to figure out who the questioner was. 
I thought it was in our strategic interests to keep Milosevic in check because of our relations in NATO, and that's why I took the position I took. 
Well, let's stay on the subject for a moment. 
I figured this out; in the last 20 years there have been eight major actions that involved the introduction of U.S. 
Let me name them. 
If you had been president for any of those interventions, would any of those interventions not have happened? 
Sure. 
I thought that was a mistake. 
I supported that. 
I supported that. 
Yes, I voted for it, supported it. 
Of course, and that again -- no, I think that that was ill-considered. 
It was in the previous administration, in the Bush-Quayle administration, and I think in retrospect the lessons there are ones that we should take very, very seriously. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Want me to do it with you? 
Make a couple comments. 
Somalia. 
And so I don't think our troops ought to be used for what's called nation-building. 
I think our troops ought to be used to help overthrow the dictator when it's in our best interests. 
I wouldn't have supported either. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
And Bosnia. 
But the reverse side of the question, Governor, that Vice President Gore mentioned, 600,000 people died in Rwanda in 1994. 
intervention, no intervention from the outside world. 
It was a horrible situation, no one liked to see it on our TV screens, but it's a case where we need to make sure we have an early warning system in place in places where there could be ethnic cleansing and genocide the way we saw it there in Rwanda. 
The administration, seem like we're having a great love for us tonight, but the administration made the right decision on training Nigerian troops for situations just such as this in Rwanda, and so I thought they made the right decision not to send U.S. 
My wife Tipper, who is here, actually went on a military plane with General Sholicatchvieli on one of those flights. 
We could have saved more lives if we had acted earlier. 
One of the criteria that I think is important in deciding when and if we should ever get involved around the world is whether or not our national security interest is involved, if we can really make the difference with military forces. 
If we have allies in the Balkans we have allies, NATO, ready, willing and able to go and carry a big part of the burden. 
Now, we have tried -- our countries tried to create an Africa crisis response team there, and we've met some resistance. 
But because we had no allies and because it was very unclear that we could actually accomplish what we would want to accomplish about putting military forces there, I think it was the right thing not to jump in, as heartbreaking as it was, but I think we should have come in much quicker with the humanitarian mission. 
Well, I understand, and Africa is important. 
We have to work with Nigeria. 
But there's got to be priorities, and Middle East is a priority for a lot of reasons, as is Europe and the Far East, our own hemisphere. 
I thought the best example of a way to handle the situation was East Timor when we provided logistical support to the Australians, support that only we can provide. 
But we can't be all things to all people in the world, Jim. 
You mentioned Haiti. 
I didn't think it was a mission worthwhile. 
It cost us billions, a couple billions of dollars, and I'm not so sure democracy is any better off in Haiti than it was before. 
I don't think we agree on that. 
I think we have to be very reticent about that. 
All these other countries are looking to us. 
And acting upon that lesson in the aftermath of our great victory in World War II, we laid down the Marshall Plan, President Truman did. 
We still have lots of troops in Europe. 
We were nation building. 
But it was also military. 
We had civil administrators come in to set up their ways of building their towns back. 
military that you would bring home if you become president? 
I think one of the lessons in between World War I and World War II is we let our military atrophy. 
And I mentioned one, and that's the Balkans. 
No one is suggesting that. 
And there is an example. 
Now there are some places where I think -- you know, I've supported the administration in Columbia. 
The hemisphere is in our interest to have a peaceful Columbia. 
Is that on your radar screen? 
Our military is meant to fight and win war. 
And I strongly believe we need to keep a presence in NATO, but I'm going to be judicious as to how to use the military. 
I don't disagree with that. 
That's what we did in Haiti. 
And Haitians have their problems, but we gave them a chance to restore democracy. 
And, you know, we can't be -- we can't allow ourselves to get overextended. 
And that's why I've supported building up our capacity. 
He said that two divisions would have to report not ready for duty, and that's not what the joint chiefs say. 
And we have to also be very cautious in the way we use our military. 
contributions to overseas development assistance is lower now almost than it has ever been. 
Do you think -- what is your -- what is your idea about what the United States' obligations are? 
Well, I mentioned Third World debt. 
That's a place where we can use our generosity to influence in a positive way, influence nations. 
I think foreign aid needs to be used to encourage markets and reform. 
One being Russia, where we had IMF loans that ended up in the pockets of a lot of powerful people and didn't help the nation. 
It needs to be available for emergency situations. 
But I don't think the IMF ought to be a stop loss for people who ought to be able to evaluate risks themselves. 
No, I would make some changes. 
I've generally supported it, but I've seen them make some calls that I thought were highly questionable. 
The World Bank I think is generally doing a better job, but I think one of the big issues here that doesn't get nearly enough attention is the issue of corruption. 
I've worked on this issue. 
And we have got to again lead by example and help these other countries that are trying to straighten out their situations find the tools in order to do it. 
The world has come together, as I said, they're looking to us. 
Are we going to step up to the plate as a nation the way we did after World War II, the way that generation of heroes said okay, the United States is going to be the leader. 
I think that in the aftermath of the Cold War, it's time for us to do something very similar, to step up to the plate, to provide the leadership on the environment, leadership to make sure the world economy keeps moving in the right direction. 
It means having intelligent decisions that keep our prosperity going and shepherds that economic strength so that we can provide that leadership role. 
I'm not so sure the role of the United States is to go around the world and say this is the way it's got to be. 
And maybe it's just our difference in government, the way we view government. 
I want to help people help themselves, not have government tell people what to do. 
I think we can help. 
But take Russia, for example. 
The only people that are going to reform Russia are Russia. 
Mr. 
But Russia has to make the decision. 
So I'm not exactly sure where the vice president is coming from, but I think one way for us to end up being viewed as the ugly American is for us to go around the world saying, we do it this way, so should you. 
We know freedom is a powerful, powerful, powerful force, much bigger than the United States of America, as we saw recently in the Balkans. 
Vice President, but I think the United States must be humble and must be proud and confident of our values, but humble in how we treat nations that are figuring out how to chart their own course. 
No, let's move on. 
First, a couple of follow-ups from the vice presidential debate last week. 
Yes, I would. 
And I know it's been going on a long time. 
Now, that runs counter to what the United States of America is all about at our core. 
I believe in local control of governments, and obviously if they don't there needs to be a consequence at the federal level. 
I don't think they ought to be held guilty. 
And if you can't, there will be a federal consequence. 
Yeah. 
I talked to an African-American police officer in Springfield, Massachusetts not long ago who raised this question and said that in his opinion one of the biggest solutions is in the training. 
And other Americans have been singled out because of their race or ethnicity. 
You have a different view of that. 
On hate crimes laws? 
We've got one in Texas. 
The three men who murdered James Byrd, guess what's going to happen to them? 
A jury found them guilty. 
And it's the right cause. 
So racial profiling isn't just an issue at local police forces. 
And as we become a diverse society, we're going to have to deal with it more and more. 
They're tolerant people. 
It's the very few that create most of the crises, and we just have to find them and deal with them. 
Like you said, Arab-Americans, but also Hispanics, Asians, as well as Blacks in this country. 
In public education when we just move children through the schools. 
She's right. 
I mean every child. 
Intensive reading laboratories, teacher retraining. 
We can do better in our public schools. 
One of the cornerstones of reform, and good reform, is to measure. 
Is anybody being profiled? 
It becomes a tool, a corrective tool. 
And if they are, fine. 
And so to make sure we end up getting rid of basic structural prejudice is education. 
The Byrd family may have a misunderstanding of it in Texas also. 
Hold on one second. 
Let's clear this up. 
Am I wrong about that? 
We do. 
And secondly, the people that murdered Mr. 
The death penalty. 
In this case when you murder somebody it's hate, Jim. 
We happen to have a statute on the books that's a hate crimes statute in Texas. 
Sure. 
I may have been misled by all the news reports about this matter, because the law that was proposed in Texas that had the support of the Byrd family and a whole lot of people in Texas did, in fact, die in committee. 
And it's important, Jim, not only -- not just because of Texas, but because this mirrors the national controversy. 
And that law has died in committee also because of the same kind of opposition. 
Absolutely. 
Vice President, we're happy with our laws on our books. 
But I want to repeat, if you have a state that fully supports the law like we do in Texas, we're going to go after all crime. 
And in this case we can't enhance the penalty any more than putting those three thugs to deaths. 
New subject, new question. 
Governor, both Senator Lieberman and Secretary Cheney said they were sympathetically rethinking their views on same sex relationships. 
I'm not for gay marriage. 
And I appreciated the way the administration signed the Defense of Marriage Act. 
But I think marriage is a sacred institution. 
I've had a record of doing so in the State of Texas. 
But I feel strongly that marriage should be between a man and a woman. 
I agree with that, and I did support that law. 
I respect their -- I respect -- on the one hand he says he agrees with me and then he says he doesn't. 
But I will be a tolerant person. 
I just happen to believe strongly that marriage is between a man and a woman. 
Yes. 
What it says is that gays and lesbians can't be fired from their job because they're gay or lesbian. 
Now, I wonder if the -- it's been blocked by the opponents in the majority in the Congress. 
Governor? 
I will tell you I'm the kind of person, I don't hire or fire somebody based upon their sexual orientation. 
I don't really think it's any of my -- you know, any of my concerns what -- how you conduct your sex life. 
Special rights, how does that affect gays and lesbians? 
But that having been said, I believe that -- well, first of all, let me say that the governor and I agree on some things where this subject is concerned. 
In fact, I cast the tie-breaking vote to close it, but then the majority in the House of Representatives went the other way. 
If we could get agreement on that, maybe they could pass that in the final days of this Congress. 
I think we should toughen the enforcement of gun laws so that the ones that are already on the books can be enforced much more effectively. 
Have a gun-free zone around every school in this country. 
If you're going to sell a gun illegally, you need to be arrested. 
And that means that the local law enforcement officials need help at the federal level. 
And we haven't done a very good job of that at the federal level recently. 
There's a lot of talk about trigger locks being on guns sold in the future. 
But I said if you want a trigger lock to make your gun safe, come and get one for free. 
I think we ought to raise the age at which a juvenile can carry a handgun from 18 to 21. 
He is for registration of guns. 
The criminal is not going to show up and say hey, give me my I.D. 
It's the law-abiding citizens who will do that. 
All right. 
Correct. 
Who would issue the -- The state. 
I think states should do that for new handguns, because too many criminals are getting guns. 
And the "Los Angeles Times" spent a lot of ink going into that. 
I do think that sensible gun safety measures are warranted now. 
Back to the question about the differences on gun control. 
Well, I'm not for photo licensing. 
Everybody believes that. 
You can't carry a gun into a school. 
But Columbine spoke to a larger issue. 
It's a culture that somewhere along the line we've begun to disrespect life. 
So gun laws are important, no question about it, but so is loving children, and character education classes, and faith-based programs being a part of after-school programs. 
So there's a -- this is a society that -- of ours that's got to do a better job of teaching children right from wrong. 
But there seems to be a lot of preoccupation on -- not certainly only in this debate, but just in general on law. 
I also believe in the Golden Rule. 
We do have a serious problem in our culture. 
She's worked on it longer than I have. 
And if I'm elected president, I will do something about that. 
And the reason it's so difficult for schools to control that is because in recent years there has been a flood of cheap handguns that are so widely available that kids are finding ways to get ahold of them. 
Yeah, no question about that, but there also needs to be strong enforcement of the law. 
We added beds. 
And that's what needs to happen. 
If laws need to be strengthened, like instant background checks, that's important. 
As I was saying. 
What about the more than 40 million younger Americans who do not have health insurance right now? 
Well, I've got a plan to do something about that. 
First, there's some who should be buying health care who choose not to. 
Some of the healthy folks, healthy young kids say I'll never get sick, therefore I don't need health care right now. 
In other words, you say to a youngster, it will be in your financial interest to start saving for future illness, but for the working folks that do want to have health care that can't afford it, a couple of things we need to do. 
I've developed -- put out money in my budget to expand community health centers all around the country. 
Secondly -- and they're good. 
Secondly, that you get a $2,000 rebate from the government if you're a family of $30,000 or less -- it scales down as you get higher -- that you can use to purchase health care in the private markets. 
If you allow -- also allow -- convince states to -- allow states to allow the mother to match some of the children's health insurance money with it, the pool purchasing power. 
I think that's the very best way to go. 
Vice President Gore? 
I would like to see eventually in this country some form of universal health care, but I'm not for a government-run system. 
I want a smaller and smarter government. 
And the budget plan that I've put out, according to the "Los Angeles Times" again, the way these things are typically measured as a percentage of the GDP, will bring government spending down to the lowest level in 50 years. 
And I'm sorry to tell you that, you know, there is a record here. 
49th for women with health care, and 50th for families with health care. 
First of all, let me say he's not for a government-run health care system? 
Secondly, we spend $4.7 billion a year on the uninsured in the State of Texas. 
Our CHIPS program got a late start because our government meets only four months out of every two years, Mr. 
And therefore Congress passes the bill after our session in 1997 ended, we passed an enabling legislation in 1999. 
We spent a lot of money to make sure people get health care in the State of Texas, and we're doing a better job than they are at the national level for reducing uninsured. 
Well, I don't know about all these percentages that he throws out, but I do know that -- I speculate that the reason why he didn't answer your question directly as to whether my numbers were right, the facts were right about Texas ranking dead last in families with health insurance and 49th out of 50 for both children and women, is because those facts are correct. 
And instead directed the money toward a tax cut, a significant part of which went to wealthy interests. 
There's -- you don't have to take my word for this. 
I believe there are 1.4 million children in Texas who do not have health insurance. 
Let's let the governor respond to that. 
Are his charges correct? 
Now, it's not the most efficient way to get people health care. 
He can make any excuse he wants, but the facts are that we're reducing the number of uninsured percentage of our population. 
Let me just tell you who the jury is. 
There's only been one governor ever elected to back-to-back four-year terms, and that was me. 
So he can throw all the kinds of numbers around. 
We come together both Republicans and Democrats. 
The reason you brought this up, is it -- are you suggesting that those numbers and that record will reflect the way Governor Bush will operate in this area of health insurance as president? 
I think he's a good person. 
I believe him when he says that he has a good heart. 
But I think it's about his priorities. 
Because by his own budget numbers, his proposals for spending on tax cuts for the wealthiest of the wealthy are more than the new spending proposals that he has made for health care and education and national defense all combined. 
So it's not a question of his heart, as far as I know. 
See, you know -- Let me ask -- First of all, that's simply not true what he just said, of course. 
That we spent -- the top 1% receive 223 as opposed to 445 billion in new spending. 
The top 1% will pay one-third of all the federal income taxes. 
That stands in stark contrast, by the way, to a man who is going to leave 50 million -- 50 million Americans out of tax relief. 
It's a totally different point of view. 
I believe everybody who pays taxes ought to get tax relief. 
We pay 4.7 billion. 
I signed a bill that puts CHIPS in place. 
We're making really good progress. 
My priority is going to be the health of our citizens. 
And my case to the American people is, if you're happy with inactivity, stay with the horse. 
But if you want change, you need to get somebody that knows how to bring Republicans and Democrats together to get positive things done for American. 
I do. 
There was a study just a few weeks ago suggesting that in summertime the north polar ice cap will be completely gone in 50 years. 
And what's happening is the level of pollution is increasing significantly. 
If we take the leadership role and build the new technologies, like the new kinds of cars and trucks that Detroit is itching to build, then we can create millions of good new jobs by being first into the market with these new kinds of cars and trucks and other kinds of technologies. 
They're moving very rapidly because they know that it is a fast-growing world market. 
And so they're looking for ways to satisfy their desire for a better life and still reduce pollution at the same time. 
We have to be bold. 
Now it's true that we disagree on this. 
He's for letting the oil companies into the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
And Texas is number one in industrial pollution. 
And I'll tell you this, I will fight for a clean environment in ways that strengthen our economy. 
Well, let me start with Texas. 
We reduced our industrial waste by 11%. 
Our water is cleaner now. 
A brown field is an abandoned industrial site that just sits idle in some of our urban centers. 
I think we ought to have federal liability protection, depending upon whether or not standards have been met. 
I think we need to have clean coal technologies. 
By the way, I just found out the other day an interesting fact, that there is a national petroleum reserve right next to -- in Prudhoe Bay that your administration opened up for exploration in that pristine area. 
No excuses. 
In other words, there are practical things we can do. 
If you own the land, every day is Earth Day. 
Where do you see the basic difference in very simple terms in two or three sentences between you and the governor on the environment? 
I'm really strongly committed to clean water and clean air, and cleaning up the new kinds of challenges like global warming. 
I am in favor of tax cuts to encourage and give incentives for the quicker development of these new kinds of technologies. 
We differ on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, as I have said. 
I don't think you can -- I don't think you can get results that way. 
Would you say it's a fundamental difference? 
Okay, sure. 
I just want to know for somebody -- we're getting close to the end of our time here. 
Vice President. 
Out in the west, yeah. 
That's not the way I would have done it. 
But I certainly would have consulted with governors and elected officials before I would have acted unilaterally. 
So long as people have input. 
I think it's an issue that we need to take very seriously. 
And I don't think we've got all the facts before we make decisions. 
Like Kyoto Treaty would have done. 
I think we need to be more even-handed, as evidently 99 senators -- I think it was 99 senators supported that position. 
But there's no doubt there's a lot of opposition to it in the Senate. 
I'm for working with the groups, not just with industry but also with the citizen groups and local communities to control sprawl in ways that the local communities themselves come up with. 
I think that we do. 
I'm a grandfather now. 
In my faith tradition, it is -- it's written in the book of Matthew, "Where your heart is, there is your treasure also." And I believe that -- that we ought to recognize the value to our children and grandchildren of taking steps that preserve the environment in a way that's good for them. 
I just -- I think there has been -- some of the scientists, I believe, Mr. 
A profound scientist recently made a different -- Both of you have now violated -- excuse me. 
Hold that thought. 
I know, I know. 
I let you do it a moment ago. 
I apologize, Mr. 
You aren't allowed to do that either, see? 
Oh, you mean the rules. 
Go ahead. 
I -- of course there's a lot -- look, global warming needs to be taken very seriously, and I take it seriously. 
And before we react, I think it's best to have the full accounting, full understanding of what's taking place. 
We may have different approaches. 
I just cited an example of the administration just unilaterally acting without any input. 
I feel very strongly the same place. 
New question. 
For you, Governor. 
You, your running mate, your campaign officials have charged that Vice President Gore exaggerates, embellishes and stretches the facts, etcetera. 
This is a serious issue that the voters should use in deciding which one of you two men to vote for on November 7? 
I've been known to mangle a syllable or two myself, you know, if you know what I mean. 
It is going to be important for the president to be credible with Congress, important for the president to be credible with foreign nations. 
This isn't something new. 
The Earned Income Tax Credit, sorry. 
A lot of initials from a guy who's not from Washington, isn't it? 
And so I think this is an issue. 
I thought there was some exaggerations about the numbers. 
And I am going to continue to defend my record and defend my propositions against what I think are exaggerations. 
That's what he said the other day, and that's simply not the case. 
I got some of the details wrong last week in some of the examples that I used, Jim, and I'm sorry about that. 
There are seniors who pay more for their prescriptions than a lot of other people, more than their pets, sometimes. 
And we need to do something about that. 
But right away. 
But I will promise you this with all the confidence in my heart and in the world, that I will do my best if I'm elected president, I'll work my heart out to get the big things right for the American people. 
That's going to be up to the people, isn't it? 
Depends on what he says in the future in the campaign. 
I hope they're not awful things. 
Well, what I mean is calling him a serial exaggerator -- I don't believe I've used those words. 
Maybe they have. 
And your campaign officials, Mr. 
The -- I haven't seen that, in my commercials? 
Your -- I think that what -- I think the point of that is that anybody would have a hard time trying to make a tax cut plan that is so large, that would put us into such big deficits, that gives almost half the benefits to the wealthiest of the wealthy. 
Gentlemen, it's time to go to the closing statements. 
Jim, one of the issues that I would like to close with in my statement is education, because it's an example of the overall approach that I think is important. 
And education is my number one priority, because I think that it's the most important big major change that we can bring in our country. 
I think that we should require states to test all students, test schools and school districts, and I think that we should go further and require teacher testing for new teachers also. 
Because I want to give new choices to parents. 
I want to reduce the size of the classrooms in this country. 
And the way to do that is first to recruit more teachers. 
If you have -- if you squander the surplus on a huge tax cut that goes mostly to those at the top, then you can't make education the top priority. 
You can't do both. 
I choose education and health care, the environment and retirement security, and I ask for your support. 
Jim, thank you very much. 
Vice President, thank you very much, and I would like to thank the folks here at Wake Forest, and I want to thank you all for listening. 
There's too many issues left unresolved. 
I would like to unite this country to get an agenda done that will speak to the hopes and aspirations of the future. 
No child should be left behind in America. 
I worry about morale in today's military. 
It is time to have a new commander in chief who will rebuild the military, pay our men and women more, make sure they're housed better and have a focused mission for our military. 
This issue has been too long on the table because it's been a political issue. 
I want to do something about Social Security. 
I believe we can set our priorities. 
I believe in limited government. 
I want to have tax relief for all people who pay the bills in America, because I think you can spend your money more wisely than the federal government can. 
I'm asking for your vote, and God bless. 
Louis for the third and final debate. 
S. 
KERRY (MA) DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE BOB SCHIEFFER CBS ANCHOR Good evening from Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. 
Tonight the topic will be domestic affairs, but the format will be the same as that first debate. 
I have not told the candidates or anyone else what they are. 
The candidate is allowed two minutes to answer. 
At my discretion, I can extend the discussion by offering each candidate an additional 30 seconds. 
A yellow light signals 15 seconds left. 
There are no opening statements, but there will be two-minute closing statements. 
Senator, I want to set the stage for this discussion by asking the question that I think hangs over all of our politics today and is probably on the minds of many people watching this debate tonight. 
Well, first of all, Bob, thank you for moderating tonight. 
And thank you to the Presidential Commission for undertaking this enormous task. 
Mr. 
Will we ever be safe and secure again? 
We absolutely must be. 
Now, how do we achieve it is the most critical component of it. 
And, as a result, America is now bearing this extraordinary burden where we are not as safe as we ought to be. 
The measurement is: Are we as safe as we ought to be? 
People who fly on airplanes today, the cargo hold is not X-rayed, but the baggage is. 
Firehouses don't have enough firefighters in them. 
So we can do a better job of homeland security. 
But I pledge this to you, America: I will do it in the way that Franklin Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan and John Kennedy and others did, where we build the strongest alliances, where the world joins together, where we have the best intelligence and where we are able, ultimately, to be more safe and secure. 
President, you have 90 seconds. 
I want to thank Arizona State as well. 
And the first voter was a 19-year-old woman. 
Freedom is on the march. 
In other words, in order to make sure we're secure, there must be a comprehensive plan. 
I think that attitude and that point of view is dangerous. 
At home, we'll do everything we can to protect the homeland. 
But absolutely we can be secure in the long run. 
Anything to add, Senator Kerry? 
When the president had an opportunity to capture or kill Osama bin Laden, he took his focus off of them, outsourced the job to Afghan warlords, and Osama bin Laden escaped. 
Mr. 
Gosh, I just don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. 
Of course we're worried about Osama bin Laden. 
We're using every asset at our disposal to get Osama bin Laden. 
No, this war is a matter of using every asset at our disposal to keep the American people protected. 
Flu kills thousands of people every year. 
How did that happen? 
My call to our fellow Americans is if you're healthy, if you're younger, don't get a flu shot this year. 
We have a problem with litigation in the United States of America. 
One of the reasons I'm such a strong believer in legal reform is so that people aren't afraid of producing a product that is necessary for the health of our citizens and then end up getting sued in a court of law. 
Senator Kerry? 
It's not working for the American family. 
82,000 Arizonians lost their health insurance under President Bush's watch. 
All across our country -- go to Ohio, 1. 
This president has turned his back on the wellness of America. 
In fact, it's starting to fall apart not because of lawsuits -- though they are a problem, and John Edwards and I are committed to fixing them -- but because of the larger issue that we don't cover Americans. 
We're the richest country on the face of the planet, the only industrialized nation in the world not to do it. 
We're going to make it affordable and accessible. 
Mr. 
I would. 
I want to remind people listening tonight that a plan is not a litany of complaints, and a plan is not to lay out programs that you can't pay for. 
That costs the government $7,700 per family. 
Time's up. 
Actually, it's not an empty promise. 
He said, if it's good enough for the congressmen and senators to have choice, seniors ought to have choice. 
I choose Blue Cross/Blue Shield. 
But the fact is, we're going to help Americans be able to buy into it. 
We're not giving this away for nothing. 
Senator Kerry, a new question. 
You pledged during the last debate that you would not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 a year. 
Health-care costs, as you are talking about, is skyrocketing, the cost of the war. 
I'll tell you exactly how I can do it: by reinstating what President Bush took away, which is called pay as you go. 
If you were going to pass something in the Congress, you had to show where you are going to pay for it and how. 
He's also the only president in 72 years to lose jobs -- 1. 
He's the only president to have incomes of families go down for the last three years; the only president to see exports go down; the only president to see the lowest level of business investment in our country as it is today. 
I'm going to change that. 
Every plan that I have laid out -- my health-care plan, my plan for education, my plan for kids to be able to get better college loans -- I've shown exactly how I'm going to pay for those. 
I'm going to stand up and fight for the American worker. 
I show how I pay for the health care, how we pay for the education. 
We pay for it by shutting that loophole overseas. 
Well, his rhetoric doesn't match his record. 
He voted to increase taxes 98 times. 
He talks about being a fiscal conservative, or fiscally sound, but he voted over -- he voted 277 times to waive the budget caps, which would have cost the taxpayers $4. 
He talks about PAYGO. 
There is a tax gap. 
The middle class. 
I sent up my budget man to the Congress, and he says, here's how we're going to reduce the deficit in half by five years. 
Let's go to a new question, Mr. 
Two minutes. 
We've expanded trade adjustment assistance. 
You know, there's a lot of talk about how to keep the economy growing. 
But perhaps the best way to keep jobs here in America and to keep this economy growing is to make sure our education system works. 
And I saw a problem in the public education system in America. 
And so we said: Let's raise the standards. 
No, education is how to help the person who's lost a job. 
And that's what I would say to that person. 
I want you to notice how the president switched away from jobs and started talking about education principally. 
Being lectured by the president on fiscal responsibility is a little bit like Tony Soprano talking to me about law and order in this country. 
6 trillion surplus and turned it into deficits as far as the eye can see. 
But guess what, America? 
The fact is that he's cut job-training money. 
I'm going to do those things, because that's what's right in America: Help workers to transition in every respect. 
And it's still on jobs. 
So I ask you, is it fair to blame the administration entirely for this loss of jobs? 
I blame the president for the things the president could do that has an impact on it. 
"And I've looked them in the eye and I've said, "No, I can't do that. 
So if you're looking at a competitive world, you say to yourself, "Hey, I do better overseas than I do here in America. 
I don't want American workers subsidizing the loss of their own job. 
And we're going to have a manufacturing jobs credit and a job hiring credit so we actually help people be able to hire here. 
The fact is that the president had an opportunity to stand up and take on China for currency manipulation. 
They were told: Don't even bother; we're not going to listen to it. 
That's what the American worker wants. 
Mr. 
Whew! 
In his last litany of misstatements. 
We've increased Pell Grants by a million students. 
You know, he talks to the workers. 
That's money in your pocket. 
The code ought to encourage marriage, not discourage marriage. 
A family of four making $40,000 received about $1,700 in tax relief. 
The way my opponent talks, he said, "We're going to spend the government's money. 
And when you have more money in your pocket, you're able to better afford things you want. 
My opponent talks about fiscal sanity. 
He voted to increase taxes 98 times and to bust the budget 277 times. 
Bob, anybody can play with these votes. 
I have supported or voted for tax cuts over 600 times. 
But you know why the Pell Grants have gone up in their numbers? 
But they're not getting the $5,100 the president promised them. 
When they voted -- when they proposed reducing taxes, you voted against it 126 times. 
You know, there's a main stream in American politics and you sit right on the far left bank. 
But let's shift to some other questions here. 
You know, Bob, I don't know. 
I do know that we have a choice to make in America and that is to treat people with tolerance and respect and dignity. 
But as we respect someone's rights, and as we profess tolerance, we shouldn't change -- or have to change -- our basic views on the sanctity of marriage. 
The reason I did so was because I was worried that activist judges are actually defining the definition of marriage, and the surest way to protect marriage between a man and woman is to amend the Constitution. 
After all, when you amend the Constitution, state legislatures must participate in the ratification of the Constitution. 
You know, Congress passed a law called DOMA, the Defense of Marriage Act. 
It basically protected states from the action of one state to another. 
But I'm concerned that that will get overturned. 
Senator Kerry? 
And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as. 
I think we have to respect that. 
I believe that. 
But I also believe that because we are the United States of America, we're a country with a great, unbelievable Constitution, with rights that we afford people, that you can't discriminate in the workplace. 
You can't disallow someone the right to visit their partner in a hospital. 
Senator Kerry, a new question for you. 
What is your reaction to that? 
I completely respect their views. 
And I grew up learning how to respect those views. 
I believe that I can't legislate or transfer to another American citizen my article of faith. 
I believe that choice is a woman's choice. 
And that's why I support that. 
Wade. 
But we know from the people he's tried to appoint to the court he wants to. 
Now, with respect to religion, you know, as I said, I grew up a Catholic. 
I know that throughout my life this has made a difference to me. 
There's a great passage of the Bible that says, "What does it mean, my brother, to say you have faith if there are no deeds? 
" And I think that everything you do in public life has to be guided by your faith, affected by your faith, but without transferring it in any official way to other people. 
All of those things come out of that fundamental teaching and belief of faith. 
And that's what we have to -- I think that's the test of public service. 
President? 
I think a hospitable society is a society where every being counts and every person matters. 
It's a brutal practice. 
What I'm saying is, is that as we promote life and promote a culture of life, surely there are ways we can work together to reduce the number of abortions: continue to promote adoption laws -- it's a great alternative to abortion -- continue to fund and promote maternity group homes; I will continue to promote abstinence programs. 
That's great. 
All of us ought to be involved with programs that provide a viable alternative to abortion. 
President, let's have a new question. 
And let's get back to economic issues. 
We're paying more. 
I would like to ask you: Who bears responsibility for this? 
Is it the doctors? 
Gosh, I sure hope it's not the administration. 
Health-care costs are on the rise because the consumers are not involved in the decision-making process. 
It's one of the reasons I'm a strong believer in what they call health savings accounts. 
Businesses can contribute, employees can contribute on a contractual basis. 
In the last debate, my opponent said those lawsuits only caused the cost to go up by 1 percent. 
Thirdly, one of the reasons why there's still high cost in medicine is because this is -- they don't use any information technology. 
We're changing the language. 
People tell me that when the health-care field is fully integrated with information technology, it'll wring some 20 percent of the cost out of the system. 
And so, those are four ways to help control the costs in health care. 
The reason health-care costs are getting higher, one of the principal reasons is that this administration has stood in the way of common-sense efforts that would have reduced the costs. 
In the Senate we passed the right of Americans to import drugs from Canada. 
The president blocked you from the right to have less expensive drugs from Canada. 
The VA does that. 
We could have done that in Medicare. 
Medicare belongs to you. 
But rather than help you, the taxpayer, have lower cost, rather than help seniors have less expensive drugs, the president made it illegal -- illegal -- for Medicare to actually go out and bargain for lower prices. 
That's a large part of your 17 percent increase in Medicare premiums. 
Now, we also have people sicker because they don't have health insurance. 
We got to have health care for all Americans. 
He has no record on reforming of health care. 
He introduced some 300 bills and he's passed five. 
I came to Washington to solve problems. 
And so I led. 
Once again, the president is misleading America. 
So the president's wrong. 
And you have said that you can pay for this by rolling back the president's tax cut on the upper 2 percent. 
I'd just ask you, where are you going to get the money? 
One called it fiction. 
The fact is that my health-care plan, America, is very simple. 
The government doesn't require you to do anything. 
You choose your plan. 
And I don't think a lot of people are going to want to keep what they have today. 
And in exchange, if the states want to -- they're not forced to, they can choose to -- they cover individuals up to 300 percent of poverty. 
I think they'll choose it, because it's a net plus of $5 billion to them. 
If it's good enough for us, it's good enough for every American. 
C. 
We give you broader competition. 
Now, what happens is when you begin to get people covered like that -- for instance in diabetes, if you diagnose diabetes early, you could save $50 billion in the health care system of America by avoiding surgery and dialysis. 
And I'm going to offer it to America. 
President? 
They analyzed the senator's plan. 
The Lewin report accurately noted that there are going to be 20 million people, over 20 million people added to government-controlled health care. 
If you raise the Medicaid to 300 percent, it provides an incentive for small businesses not to provide private insurance to their employees. 
It's estimated that 8 million people will go from private insurance to government insurance. 
I think government- run health will lead to poor-quality health, will lead to rationing, will lead to less choice. 
And just look at other countries that have tried to have federally controlled health care. 
Our health-care system is the envy of the world because we believe in making sure that the decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in the nation's capital. 
The president just said that government-run health care results in poor quality. 
Maybe that explains why Medicare patients are complaining about being pushed off of Medicare. 
I have Blue Cross/Blue Shield. 
President? 
That's twice the amount that my predecessor increased VA funding. 
We're expanding veterans' health care throughout the country. 
Veterans are getting very good health care under my administration, and they will continue to do so during the next four years. 
President, the next question is to you. 
You have proposed to fix it by letting people put some of the money collected to pay benefits into private savings accounts. 
So where do you get the money? 
gets elected, your check will be taken away. 
There is a problem for our youngsters, a real problem. 
But for our children and our grandchildren, we need to have a different strategy. 
It was a committee chaired by the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat. 
I believe that younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own money and put it in a personal savings account, because I understand that they need to get better rates of return than the rates of return being given in the current Social Security trust. 
I will work with Republicans and Democrats. 
It is an issue that I am willing to take on, and so I'll bring Republicans and Democrats together. 
But I want to warn my fellow citizens: The cost of doing nothing, the cost of saying the current system is OK, far exceeds the costs of trying to make sure we save the system for our children. 
You just heard the president say that young people ought to be able to take money out of Social Security and put it in their own accounts. 
Now, the president has never explained to America, ever, hasn't done it tonight, where does the transitional money, that $2 trillion, come from? 
He's broken the pay-as-you-go rules. 
In 1985, I was one of the first Democrats -- broke with my party. 
We paid down the debt for two years. 
We're going to protect Social Security. 
I will not cut the benefits. 
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, says there's no way that Social Security can pay retirees what we have promised them unless we recalibrate. 
We may have to take some other reform. 
Not at all. 
This is the same thing we heard -- remember, I appeared on "Meet the Press" with Tim Russert in 1990-something. 
We fixed it. 
6 trillion surplus in the '90s that was for the purpose of saving Social Security. 
The president decided to give it to the wealthiest Americans in a tax cut. 
I don't. 
And when I roll it back and we invest in the things that I have talked about to move our economy, we're going to grow sufficiently, it would begin to cut the deficit in half, and we get back to where we were at the end of the 1990s when we balanced the budget and paid down the debt of this country. 
And we'll make whatever adjustment is necessary. 
The jobs the president is creating pay $9,000 less than the jobs that we're losing. 
6 million jobs. 
I have a plan to put America back to work. 
He forgot to tell you he voted to tax Social Security benefits more than one time. 
That's exactly where the tax cuts went. 
People listening out there know the benefits of the tax cuts we passed. 
If you're married, you got tax relief. 
All of which was opposed by my opponent. 
People need to remember: Six months prior to my arrival, the stock market started to go down. 
And then we had a recession and we got attacked, which cost us 1 million jobs. 
I led the Congress. 
And now this economy is growing. 
But the way to make sure our economy grows is not to raise taxes on small-business owners. 
It's to make sure we have fiscal sanity and keep taxes low. 
President. 
Some people believe this is a security issue, as you know. 
And what do we need to do about it? 
We've got 1,000 more Border Patrol agents on the southern border. 
It's a subject I'm very familiar with. 
Many people are coming to this country for economic reasons. 
If you can make 50 cents in the heart of Mexico, for example, or make $5 here in America, $5. 
And that's what's happening. 
That has the benefit of making sure our employers aren't breaking the law as they try to fill their workforce needs. 
See, the card, it'll have a period of time attached to it. 
If somebody is coming here to work with a card, it means they're not going to have to sneak across the border. 
Now, it's very important for our citizens to also know that I don't believe we ought to have amnesty. 
If they want to become a citizen, they can stand in line, too. 
Senator? 
The American middle-class family isn't making it right now, Bob. 
He said he would reform it. 
Here's what I'll do: Number one, the borders are more leaking today than they were before 9/11. 
It's against the law in the United States to hire people illegally, and we ought to be enforcing that law properly. 
We got to start moving them toward full citizenship, out of the shadows. 
President? 
They're much better protected today than they were when I was the governor of Texas. 
He just doesn't understand how the borders work, evidently, to say that. 
Senator? 
The fact is that we now have people from the Middle East, allegedly, coming across the border. 
We have iris-identification technology. 
We can know who the people are, that they're really the people they say they are when they cross the border. 
Well, I'm glad you raised that question. 
And, America, this is one of those issues that separates the president and myself. 
But the Republican leadership of the House and Senate won't even let us have a vote on it. 
They don't want to raise the minimum wage. 
One percent of America got $89 billion last year in a tax cut, but people working hard, playing by the rules, trying to take care of their kids, family values, that we're supposed to value so much in America -- I'm tired of politicians who talk about family values and don't value families. 
We also need to hold on to equal pay. 
They've cut it off. 
They don't enforce these kinds of things. 
We'd put money into the hands of people who work hard, who obey the rules, who play for the American dream. 
I will fight tooth and nail to pass the minimum wage. 
But let me talk about what's really important for the worker you're referring to. 
It's to make sure we raise standards. 
The No Child Left Behind Act says, "We'll raise standards. 
But in return for extra spending, we now want people to measure -- states and local jurisdictions to measure to show us whether or not a child can read or write or add and subtract. 
And we weren't diagnosing problems. 
And guess who would get shuffled through? 
And when we find a problem, we spend extra money to correct it. 
In order to make sure people have jobs for the 21st century, we've got to get it right in the education system, and we're beginning to close a minority achievement gap now. 
Mr. 
He said -- and this will be a new question to you -- he said that you had never said whether you would like to overturn Roe v. 
So I'd ask you directly, would you like to? 
And the answer is, no, I will not have a litmus test. 
Senator Kerry, you'd like to respond? 
. 
You have 90 seconds. 
Well, again, the president didn't answer the question. 
I'm not going to appoint a judge to the Court who's going to undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment, or the Fifth Amendment, or some other right that's given under our courts today -- under the Constitution. 
So I don't intend to see it undone. 
But let me go a step further. 
I don't know how you can govern in this country when you look at New York City and you see that 50 percent of the black males there are unemployed, when you see 40 percent of Hispanic children -- of black children in some cities -- dropping out of high school. 
Now right here in Arizona, that difference would have been $131 million to the state of Arizona to help its kids be able to have better education and to lift the property tax burden from its citizens. 
Yes, sir? 
One, he clearly has a litmus test for his judges, which I disagree with. 
He talked about the unemployed. 
He talked about children whose parents don't speak English as a first language? 
And that's what the No Child Left Behind Act does. 
President, you measure it by whether you're getting the job done. 
$89 billion last year to the top 1 percent of Americans, but kids lost their after-school programs. 
You have two minutes, sir. 
You agreed with him. 
Some of them say that it's a back-door draft. 
If you became president, Senator Kerry, what would you do about this situation of holding National Guard and Reservists for these extended periods of time and these repeated call-ups that they're now facing? 
Our military is overextended. 
In addition, I'm going to double the number of Special Forces so that we can fight a more effective war on terror, with less pressure on the National Guard and Reserve. 
There's much we can do with them with respect to homeland security. 
And that would relieve an enormous amount of pressure. 
I've said it before, I say it again: I believe the president broke faith to the American people in the way that he took this nation to war. 
He said in Cincinnati we would plan carefully, we would take every precaution. 
And the result is our forces today are overextended. 
And America now is paying, already $120 billion, up to $200 billion before we're finished and much more probably. 
Mr. 
The best way to take the pressure off our troops is to succeed in Iraq, is to train Iraqis so they can do the hard work of democracy, is to give them a chance to defend their country, which is precisely what we're doing. 
I remember going on an airplane in Bangor, Maine, to say thanks to the reservists and Guard that were headed overseas from Tennessee and North Carolina, Georgia. 
The people I talked to their spirits were high. 
They viewed their service as an opportunity to serve their country. 
In our first debate he proposed America pass a global test. 
I'll work with friends. 
Senator? 
In fact, I've said the opposite: I will never turn the security of the United States over to any nation. 
But I think it makes sense, I think most Americans in their guts know, that we ought to pass a sort of truth standard. 
The international community, the international world said this is the right thing to do, but when it came time to authorize the use of force on the Senate floor, my opponent voted against the use of force. 
You said that if Congress would vote to extend the ban on assault weapons, that you'd sign the legislation, but you did nothing to encourage the Congress to extend it. 
Actually, I made my intentions -- made my views clear. 
I believe law-abiding citizens ought to be able to own a gun. 
But the best way to protect our citizens from guns is to prosecute those who commit crimes with guns. 
And the prosecutions are up by about 68 percent -- I believe -- is the number. 
To me, that's the best way to secure America. 
I believe it was a failure of presidential leadership not to reauthorize the assault weapons ban. 
I'm a gun owner. 
And I respect the Second Amendment and I will not tamper with the Second Amendment. 
I'm also a former law enforcement officer. 
We just did a drug bust a week earlier, and the guy we arrested had an AK-47 lying on the bed right beside him. 
Terrorists can now come into America and go to a gun show and, without even a background check, buy an assault weapon today. 
It encouraged them to do it. 
For you, Senator Kerry, two minutes. 
No, Bob, regrettably, we have not moved far enough along. 
I'll give you an example. 
I was chairman of it once. 
We used to -- you know, we have a goal there for minority set-aside programs, to try to encourage ownership in the country. 
They don't even fight to reach those goals. 
The fact is that in too many parts of our country, we still have discrimination. 
I think that we have a long way to go, regrettably. 
During the Clinton years, as you may recall, there was a fight over affirmative action. 
And we fixed it for a reason: because there are too many people still in this country who feel the stark resistance of racism, and so we have a distance to travel. 
If a president doesn't reach out and bring people in and be inclusive, then how are we going to get over those barriers? 
Mr. 
Well, first of all, it is just not true that I haven't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. 
And secondly, like my opponent, I don't agree we ought to have quotas. 
But we ought to have an aggressive effort to make sure people are educated, to make sure when they get out of high school there's Pell Grants available for them, which is what we've done. 
Do you realize today in America, we spend $73 billion to help 10 million low- and middle-income families better afford college? 
I believe the best way to help our small businesses is not only through small-business loans, which we have increased since I've been the president of the United States, but to unbundle government contracts so people have a chance to be able to bid and receive a contract to help get their business going. 
I believe part of a hopeful society is one in which somebody owns something. 
And that's hopeful, and that's positive. 
And I believe, I don't remember the quote exactly, but I believe you said you had checked with a higher authority. 
First, my faith plays a lot -- a big part in my life. 
And I do. 
I pray for strength. 
I pray for our troops in harm's way. 
You're equally an American if you choose to worship an almighty and if you choose not to. 
That's the great thing about America, is the right to worship the way you see fit. 
I receive calmness in the storms of the presidency. 
Somebody asked me one time, "Well, how do you know? 
" Religion is an important part. 
I believe that God wants everybody to be free. 
And that's been part of my foreign policy. 
And I can't tell you how encouraged I am to see freedom on the march. 
Senator Kerry? 
I think it's important and I share it. 
Everything is a gift from the Almighty. 
And frankly, I think we have a lot more loving of our neighbor to do in this country and on this planet. 
And the president and I have a difference of opinion about how we live out our sense of our faith. 
I think we've got a lot more work to do. 
I think it's fair to say we've become pretty polarized, perhaps because of the political season. 
Let me pay a compliment to the president, if I may. 
That's where we were. 
I regret to say that the president who called himself a uniter, not a divider, is now presiding over the most divided America in the recent memory of our country. 
I've never seen members of a party locked out of meetings the way they're locked out today. 
Over 20 years in the United States Senate, I've worked with John McCain, who's sitting here, I've worked with other colleagues. 
I've tried to find the common ground, because that's what makes us strong as Americans. 
And one of the ways we're going to do it is, I'm going to work with my friend, John McCain, to further campaign finance reform so we get these incredible amounts of money out of the system and open it up to average people, so America is really represented by the people who make up America. 
President? 
I had a record of working with Republicans and Democrats as the governor of Texas, and I was hopeful I'd be able to do the same thing. 
The No Child Left Behind Act, incredibly enough, was good work between me and my administration and people like Senator Ted Kennedy. 
But Washington is a tough town. 
I'll continue, in the four years, to continue to try to work to do so. 
We're just in a period -- we've got to work to bring it -- my opponent keeps mentioning John McCain, and I'm glad he did. 
And my opponent has got a plan of retreat and defeat in Iraq. 
And it occurred to me as I came to this debate tonight that the three of us share something. 
We're all married to strong women. 
I'd like to ask each of you, what is the most important thing you've learned from these strong women? 
To stand up straight and not scowl. 
I tell the people on the campaign trail, when I asked Laura to marry me, she said, "Fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech. 
"Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that deal. 
And she speaks English a lot better than I do. 
But they see a compassionate, strong, great first lady in Laura Bush. 
When I met her in the backyard at Joe and Jan O'Neill's in Midland, Texas, it was the classic backyard barbecue. 
I think you'll find somebody who might interest you. 
And not only did she interest me, I guess you would say it was love at first sight. 
Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up. 
But I can take it. 
And she was in the hospital, and I went in to talk to her and tell her what I was thinking of doing. 
"Those are the three words that she left me with. 
They don't let me get away with anything. 
They surely don't let me do that. 
I've watched him with the first lady, who I admire a great deal, and his daughters. 
Senator Kerry, I believe you're first. 
More than ever, we need to be united as a country. 
I just care whether it works for America and whether it's going to make us stronger. 
I believe I offer tested, strong leadership that can calm the waters of the troubled world. 
We can lift our schools up. 
We can have health care for all Americans. 
Let me just make it clear: I will never allow any country to have a veto over our security. 
I think the greatest possibilities of our country, our dreams and our hopes, are out there just waiting for us to grab onto them. 
I ask you for your trust. 
Mr. 
In the Oval Office, there's a painting by a friend of Laura and mine named -- by Tom Lee. 
And he said this about it. 
We've come through a recession, a stock market decline, an attack on our country. 
Over the next four years, we'll continue to rally the armies of compassion, to help heal the hurt that exists in some of our country's neighborhoods. 
We must never waver in the face of this enemy that -- these ideologues of hate. 
We got great faith in the ability of liberty to transform societies, to convert a hostile world to a peaceful world. 
God bless you. 
President. 
Well, that brings these debates to a close, but the campaign goes on. 
Acephalous Friday, 07 May 2010 Because I've been grading all damn day and am as tired as a Swearengen of hearing other about the finished semesters of pretty much every other academic blogger, I thought that it might be best to avoid jealously lashing out and scribble a "Best of Acephalous 2009" post. 
What do I mean? 
Granted, the likelihood that I'm suffering from the identitarian equivalent of presentism is awfully high, but I honestly thought I'd written some of the posts from early 2009 in 2006 or so. 
Posted at 05:50 PM Comments Why is someone so young not having fun with friends on a Friday night. 
I should know. 
You need to try to have a life outside your computer. 
The post not only taught me something about the grammar of such images, but more importantly led to me realising that there is a grammar to look for in the first place. 
I also liked "Teaching the Overdetermined Image." Your takedown of Cashill and the whole Ayers-wrote-Dreams was excellent, and the Cruel_cruel_death post (you know what I'm talking about, right?). 
Posted by: Caio | Saturday, 08 May 2010 at 06:49 PM Agree with the previous two comments. 
Posted by: Martin Wisse | Sunday, 09 May 2010 at 01:19 AM What happened to your post that appeared in my RSS reader yesterday? 
I feel your British readers would appreciate that. 
I noted on Facebook that, from a statistical perspective, what makes baseball such an amazing sport is that you can watch it your entire life and still see, on a daily basis, something youve never seen before. 
John Emerson responded with some humbug about it not being an inside-the-park grand slam, which made me remember that I had seen an inside-the-park grand slam at some time in the remote past. 
on 9 June 1985 , I watched Terry Pendleton hit an inside-the-park grand slam off Joe Sambito in a game the Cardinals would go on to win handily. 
This realization is obviously not of world-historical importance, merely a reminder that this thing whose existence we take for granted daily represents a fundamentally weird complement to human memory. 
That I can access detailed information about events I have no right remembering in detail is another matter entirely. 
Wow. 
I sometimes wish I could forget that Pendelton is the Braves hitting coach. 
Posted by: Chuck | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 06:16 PM He pitched for the Astros before he came to the Mets, stayed for '85, then he pitched for the Red Sox against the Mets in '86 World Series. 
Now that I remember him, which I didn't before, I remember him as being the pitcher who'd pitched for 1) the team the Mets faced to get to the '86 Series and 2) the one they faced in it. 
Memory, as Gertrude Stein would say, is funny. 
What's really bothersome, though, is when you only remember things from your distant past. 
Posted by: John Emerson | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 07:02 PM A guess, but perhaps your grandfather's life at 22 was more interesting than the ensuing 70 yrs. 
Bouffant | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 08:54 PM You know what makes this post great? 
Posted by: tomemos | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 09:04 PM Yeah, I remember Sambito from the Astros (when the Braves were in the old NL West because it made sense to have a team 3,000 miles from most of their division rivals). 
But burned out toward the end. 
Posted by: Chuck | Thursday, 20 May 2010 at 12:14 PM >Prosthetic memory. 
Having given up on watching the actual sport, mention of baseball now only sparks memories of The Old Man and the Sea and the old time baseball writers. 
Plus, they smoked a prodigious quantity of cigarettes. 
The Anti-Terrorist - Undermining The Motivation For Terrorism By Rev. 
BACKGROUND , September 11, 2004 Three years have now gone by since the September 11th attacks in 2001, and terrorism is a far greater threat to us now than it was then. 
And the serious targets have expanded to include civilians in Russia, India, Maylasia, the Philippines, Spain, and elsewhere, as well as Israel and its sole supporter, the United States. 
What could be more spectacular than the 9/11 attacks? 
Or massive bio-chemical attack! 
And proof that Bush has failed may come at any moment, explosively, with one big successful attack here in the USA. 
WHAT IS TERRORISM? 
NEUTRALIZING TERRORISM Our purpose here is to NEUTRALIZE TERRORISM by removing the motivation for it. 
We completely reject the idea that terrorism can be defeated by brute force, because brute force radicalizes the moderates, and they then join the terrorists. 
In all of these cases above, if the radical Muslims would cease their attacks, all terrorism on both sides of every dispute would quickly end. 
The moral and religious theories which support terrorism are quite faulty and erroneous. 
If the terrorist loses faith in the righteousness of his acts, he is less likely to perform them. 
- Framed Below): "Qur'an Forbids Terrorism" In every case of terrorism, we will find some kind of legitimate underlying grievance. 
Is this "negotiating with terrorists" or "trying to appease the terrorists," as some Israeli/NeoCons would try to say? 
BIG PICTURE A big picture of our entire Anti-Terrorism strategy can be found at our website => http://www.loveallpeople.org/defeatingterrorism.html . 
May God help us all. 
May God help us all. 
Jet Lag: Pathophysiology and Cures The longest Monday of my life I recently returned to the US from Australia. 
Crossing the date line messed up my sense of time enough without the added bonus of thinking I should be heading to bed just as the sun began to climb into the California sky. 
The catch-all name for circadian misalignment, the disruption of sleep cycles and circadian rhythms. 
The pathophysiology of jet lag Normally, two systems--the homeostatic system and the circadian system--work together to produce a 24-hour sleep cycle. 
The circadian system generates an alerting signal in opposition to this sleep drive, which, during the day, keeps a person from feeling increasingly sleepy. 
So we've got a nice cycle of sleep. 
For example, the circadian system may signal a person to be alert when it's not actually morning, or may be reduced during daytime hours, causing daytime sleepiness because the homeostatic sleep drive is no longer cancelled out. 
How do you beat jet lag? 
Studies have shown that without light cues, totally blind people tend to have free-running circadian rhythms with an average period of 24.5 hours, instead of the usual 24. 
Brighter light has more of an effect (such as the sun, at 3000 to 10,000 lux), though lower intensities (e.g., 100-550 lux) can produce changes. 
Alternatively, a person could wear very dark glasses, as light avoidance could help minimize the problems of light exposure at the wrong time of day or night. 
Melatonin is secreted by the pineal gland at night; secretion is suppressed by light exposure, and as such, the hormone can be thought of as a "darkness signal." If doses of melatonin are administered in the morning, circadian rhythms will be shifted later; evening doses shift rhythms earlier. 
Slowly adjust your sleep schedule to match that of your destination, or keep your home sleep schedule for a while after you arrive. 
Use this method at your own risk. 
As you might guess, hypnotic medications combat insomnia and stimulants fight off daytime sleepiness pretty well, because by definition, that's what they do. 
Granted, caffeine subjects also took longer to fall asleep later and awoke more frequently, but that may be a risk you have to take. 
Of course, the only solution that will always work is time. 
UPDATE: ; I was alerted by a friend of the existence further research of which I was unaware: Another way to reset your sleep-wake cycle is to stop eating . 
The Fuller, Lu, & Saper paper [PDF], published in Science , discusses the mechanism, though a more recent paper argues that the Fuller et al. 
Orange-gold light filters into the grassy meadow, touching a row of canvas tents and the temple house beyond. 
This is the seat of His Holiness the Sakya Trizin in the United States, a Tibetan Buddhist monastery established nine years ago. 
The field work office at my college arranges this retreat every semester. 
I like learning new things, so I signed up. 
Medicine for one's mind The first evening, the twenty-something students--most from my college, four from another--gathered in the shrine room, sitting cross-legged on cushions as we listened to Khenpo Kalsang introduce Tibetan Buddhist philosophy. 
Take it through analysis, if there is some benefit in it for you." Religion, he said, is like a drugstore full of medicine. 
You believe the other medicine may have just as much value, but in other situations, not this one. 
When we talked about the giving, and how one should try to give what one could to other sentient beings (in the form of material items, kind words, protection, and so on), Khenpo Kalsang shared a story of the Buddha, and how the Buddha had given his flesh so that a family of hungry tigers could eat. 
"Only if you feel no regret," he said. 
This struck a chord. 
Knowing and understanding Later, I talked to the resident nun, Ani Kunga, about psychology and cognitive science. 
"Psychologists," she said, "study the brain and the self externally. 
All three examine the distinction between the self and others, between the observer and the observed, between knowing and the knower. 
But this doesn't mean that there isn't merit to such studies, nor that nothing of use can be learned in that way. 
During a second philsophy session, Khenpo Kalsang translated a sutra about a king who received advice from the Buddha. 
Sunshine melted lazily through the tree branches above, a breeze animating the branches' shadows so they danced between our cushions. 
The key message: "If there's something you can do, why are you unhappy? 
If there's nothing you can do, why are you unhappy?" Ani Kunga explained several off-session and one on-session technique for dealing with negative emotions (anger, hate, irritation, stress, jealousy, and so on). 
Stay tuned for a more in-depth post on the topic. 
But if no one shares their prayers, it will certainly do no good. 
If I stay still long enough, if I've achieved a relatively constant level of happiness and satisfaction, I forget that I can and should continue to seek out new ideas and approaches, and incorporate beneficial ones into my life. 
Ever onward and ever upward. 
I mean, sure, I could take my pick of popular New Year's resolutions ; I could decide, on the first day of the new year, that this year, I'll start exercising more and eating better, or that I'll spend more time with my family and friends, or that I'll learn a new skill. 
Making resolutions: It's about self-control The question Anirban Mukhopadhyay of the Hong Kong University and Gita Venkatarmani Johar of the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University asked is this: What determines how many goals a person will set, and how successful a person will be at achieving those goals? 
They suggested that what you believe about self-control affects the goals you set and achieve [PDF]. 
Mukhopadhyay & Venkatarmani discuss various lay theories of self-control, noting that the amount of self-control a person has can be seen as either an inherently limited or unlimited resource, and that this resource can be seen either as malleable or as fixed (the amount of self-control a person has can change over time, or not). 
So if you think you'll be able to achieve a goal, you're more likely to set it. 
If you believe self-control is malleable but limited, you'll set fewer goals. 
They propose that people with high self-efficacy--people who believe that failure is the result of insufficient effort, and thus exhibit increased commitment and persistence--will achieve more of their goals than people with low self-efficacy, who tend to view failure as the result of deficient ability, and thus may simply give up. 
Each passage contained two paragraphs; the first discussed self-control either as limited or as unlimited, and the second discussed self-control as either malleable or fixed. 
The study was testing whether a belief in unlimited, malleable self-control would result in most resolutions, and indeed, this is what was found. 
Data from 130 new participants revealed that, as hypothesized, if the motivation & goals questionnaire were assessed first, then among the people who believed self-control is malleable, those who also believed self-control to be unlimited (vs. 
When lay theories were assessed first, this result reversed. 
The third study moved on to examine goal achievement, adding a measure to look at self-efficacy. 
In the first session , the 159 participants read passages about lay theories (much like in study one, but with longer passages to strengthen the manipulation), listed the resolutions they were planning on making at New Years, rated how disappointed they would be if they failed to keep their resolutions, and filled out individual difference measures (which included a self-efficacy scale). 
What does this mean for your resolutions? 
As shown in the first two studies, more goals were set by people who believe self-control is unlimited and malleable than by any other people--that is, if you expect more success, you may increase the difficulty and number of tasks that you set for yourself. 
But if participants believed in unlimited self-control, self-efficacy had no effect; participants achieved just as many goals regardless, and people who set more resolutions were marginally more likely to succeed. 
But in general, lay theories about self-control can determine how much success you'll expect (and thus, how many goals you'll set), and self-efficacy beliefs can determine how much success you'll actually have. 
& Johar, G.V. 
Where There Is a Will, Is There a Way? 
Varsity athletics: Credit or no? 
This proposal has been in the works for nearly two years, and at long last, folks are voting to approve it. 
As a member of the Student Athlete Advisory Committee and as a long-time varsity athlete, you might say I have particular stake in the proposal. 
It seems justified: Students can receive credit for participating in other extracurricular, faculty-supervised activities, such as the orchestra, the choir, and the repertory dance theatre, so why not varsity athletics? 
If you get credit for introductory P.E. 
But our school newspaper presents other arguments in favor, which Carolyn thinks are highly unjustified: On top of everything, we must remember that varsity athletics present a considerable time commitment. 
If I cared more about other activities, I'd do those instead. 
Carolyn's supporting example, that higher level courses with more difficult and plentiful homework are worth the same amount of credit as introductory 100-level courses, drives this point home. 
Students choose to be varsity athletes of their own accord. 
Athletes shouldn't get special privileges simply because they're athletes. 
Sacrifices must be made, sure: Dance party on Friday night, or overnight travel to a competition? 
You learn stuff, too The article continues: While athletes will continue to be held to the Colleges rigorous academic standards, the athletics credit could discourage a varsity athlete from unnecessarily taking on five academic credits while in their athletic season. 
I'd like to be known that students who have trouble balancing tough course loads and time-consuming extracurriculars have always had the option of taking a lighter load or dropping an extracurricular. 
Students who aren't varsity athletes could add an easy P.E. 
Students who can balance their work and their sport will continue to do so. 
thus negating the need for an overload form if taking five courses. 
Academics are officially what college is about. 
Students' GPAs will, in part, determine what they are able to do with their lives. 
these I've learned from my sport and my coaches. 
But it's no less important. 
Detroit and the Myth of the $100 House | Uprooted, an eco/travel blog America's Rust Belt is a swath of cities and towns that boomed during the Industrial Era and now lie -- well, rusting -- as empty remainders of glory days past. 
The longtime center of American automotive manufacturing was gutted when the Big Three car companies simultaneously failed. 
What's left behind when an economy collapses? 
I'd read a New York Times article about some forward-thinking artist-types who bought a house in Detroit for $1,900 . 
Some of us (and lots of New Yorkers) pay that much in rent every month! 
The artist types notified their buddies, who moved in post haste. 
Really? 
Even if it was a real fixer-upper, even if you really were better off tearing it down than living in it, that'd still be a hell of a deal. 
So how can you buy an actual home for $100? 
The possibilities of this were fascinating. 
I pictured young artists owning homes, fixing up neighborhoods. 
We could take that oil-stained soil and those rusted factories, and create something new and beautiful. 
And so Quiet Earp and I did some research, and came up with a list of houses selling for under a grand. 
We picked two neighborhoods to cruise, and dove in. 
The place is practically deserted. 
Houses and businesses are boarded up, painted up, bombed out and falling down. 
Don't believe me? 
Truthfully, it wasn't about race: it was about being naive. 
Detroit is a ghost town, and it's inhabited by ghosts: the only people left here are those who can't or won't leave. 
They sit on the porch and watch the cars go by, watch the deals go down, watch their neighborhoods crumble. 
It "needed some work, a hole patched, some windows replaced." Well, I don't know what part of Detroit these folks live in, but the $100 houses I saw looked more like this: You see, abandoned houses in this town get set on fire. 
Wherever we went in those neighborhoods, one in four houses had been torched. 
We didn't slow down to take a photo, but I'll paraphrase: DON'T BURN HOUSES DOWN! 
Except that they obviously aren't. 
It's like the Wild West without the scenery, the gold, and the hope. 
Ultimately, I do believe that change will come to Detroit. 
Long story short: Yes, you can buy a house in Detroit for $100. 
Cheers to Toby Barlow , who inspired my trek to Detroit, and who believes in a happier, greener future. 
16 Responses to "Detroit and the Myth of the $100 House" bisnis 16. 
Thank you for this info. 
Sep, 2009 at 10:06 am Please track down and watch a movie called "Detroit: A City to Yourself", by Nicole MacDonald. 
Most poignantly, it talks about Hurricane Katrina, which focused attention on rebuilding another city with this level of devastation, and how without a single catastrophic event to blame for it, Detroit's decay has gone unsympathetically ignored. 
About the pop fiction which explores the concept of a post-human world, and how it already exists now. 
HOWEVER ... 
There are industrial spaces being turned into low-rent artist lofts and business incubators. 
(west of Livernois around McNichols). 
And there's always Belle Isle. 
Oh, and entry is free, so it's available to anyone regardless of economic status. 
Within a hundred yards of each other. 
There's a whole street being taken over by artists, Farnsworth between Moran and McDougall. 
A few weeks ago, someone broke into their shed to steal their garden tools. 
Whoever took that stuff is probably using it in their own garden. 
Jessica 19. 
You are exactly the kind of person who gives me back the hope I lost on my way into town. 
Love the fact that people are stealing garden implements (though it's still sad that they need to). 
And when I'm in the area again, I'll go out to Belle Isle and think long&hard about the future of American cities--as I'm sure you do occasionally too. 
Sep, 2009 at 10:17 pm Well, growing up not far from Detroit myself, I would point out a few things: 1. 
See, there's a wee bit of loyalty to the Big 3 and driving a foreign car doesn't really scream "solidarity" to those struggling to survive. 
You think I'm kidding, but I couldn't be more serious -- that Honda is a visceral reminder for people of how the American consumer has left Detroit in the dust. 
But its not going to happen with the investment of $100 into a single house. 
3. 
They lack the means to build her back to her former glory, but she won't be abandoned. 
I've never been there, but ever since that mad, possessed American History Professor I had, I've been haunted by Detroit. 
(Joyce Carol Oates in the NYTBR) When folks like Gertie Nevels, and Levon Helm and John Hiatt and my favorite, John Henry, left the mountains to go wrestle with the Industrial leviathan in Detroit, they were in it to the death. 
Everybody wins. 
Uncle B 18. 
Is this the greatness they built on earth? 
We die in war to bring this to other countries? 
Does this show our system's superiority over the commies in China? 
Europe's follies? 
Can any of what we built be recovered, restored, renovated, into useful shelter? 
Have the great fortunes earned in trust as "American" for American investment here in America, really migrated to the Beijing, Shanghai, and Hang-Seng markets, converted to safer "Yuan" and invested in China's wealth? 
Do you still love democracy, corporatism, capitalism and all it has done for you? 
Is Conscription just around the corner, to serve Halliburton(Dubai) in attaining pipeline clearance through Afghanistan, to Turkmenistan and the oil field there? 
Are we just mercenaries for big oil, not liberators spreading "Freedom"? 
What, exactly did we win in Iraq? 
I think not! 
I think not! 
What were we doing? 
Japan? 
To the Uber-Rich? 
The dark horse rides on! 
You gotta be kidding me! 
They have the unmidas touch. 
When you said you were naive, you weren't kidding. 
Oct, 2009 at 3:36 pm Nope, I wasn't kidding. 
Lumpy, I'm not a Democrat and I don't much approve of the Democratic Party. 
That's where the green movement comes in, and when I say "green" I'm talking plants not politics. 
I agree -- Democrats, like country music, have disappointed me too many times in the past for me to keep on listening. 
Salmon have forgot how to screw. 
The patient is earth, and it's not getting better. 
Just ask the Palestinians who left after the first war to cry over the past. 
*Or even Friend Salmon, who still haunts my dreams and tells me not to let us blow each other's asses off the earth until we clean up the mess we have made. 
Oct, 2009 at 6:21 pm " ... 
Eric 01. 
Nov, 2009 at 1:06 pm You told me about this, but it has to be seen to be believed (not that I didn't believe you!). 
?! 
18. 
Parker 15. 
I plan to take a (Daytime) tour of these decaying areas especially the old factories. 
However, the main reason I wanted to post was to say to "Lumpy", "the democrats have the unmidas touch", LMAO, that is classic. 
Freaking hillarious and so true. 
BTW, great blog and great info. 
Brad 14. 
A $1,000 house, which could be fixed up into maybe a $30-40,000 house comes with a tax bill of $4-6K per year! 
Additionally, even if you paid cash for the house, you'd probably want to carry some homeowner's insurance with all the inherent risks to the property (arson, vandalism), and I'm sure it's sky-high, given those risks. 
Go! 
// http://www.webreference.com/js/ // License is granted if and only if this entire // copyright notice is included. 
Well, at least she's losing. 
Good job. 
Filed under: Christine O'Donnell, Election 2010, Sarah Palin, Teabaggers, Wingnuts Posted By Bob Cesca | October 19, 2010 2:43 PM Comments I heard this same accusation on Kos today, that the audience is laughing AT Christine O'Donnell on the first thing she says, but I disagree entirely: On THAT point, HER supporters are laughing at COONS, it's absolutely a "She's got YOU, DUMBASS!!" laugh, the sort of "Oh-No-She-D'I'INT!" laugh you'd hear from a studio audience when the slightly stupid but affable and hitherto ineffective Dunce Character finally gets a zinger in on the Handsome Lead. 
Those are hoots and calls of SUPPORT for O'Donnell supposedly putting one over on Coons, they aren't laughing at her. 
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 2:52 PM Hilarious. 
But it's obvious that O'Donnell thinks they're laughing at him, not her. 
She thinks she just scored mucho points on Baldy. 
They routinely claim that the establishment of religion clause doesn't mean what everyone else thinks it means. 
Looks at me, I wins a big arguments and I poops my pants. 
I love when ignorant fucks like O'Donnell and her little orcling hordes make huge category mistakes like this. 
They should have applauded, that would have settled this matter for good. 
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 3:11 PM Well ELDING, its already being reported that it was HER that was clueless so Coons gets the last laugh on that. 
I mean, it could be some of her supporters infiltrated, but I truly believe there would've been lots of catcalling, etc. 
Posted by: pea at October 19, 2010 3:30 PM Yeah, Pea, you have a point there, but still: The laughter doesn't sound incredulous to me, it sounds appreciative and snarky. 
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 3:53 PM well, keep in mind that all of them probably know what a freak she is. 
I know if I had the opportunity to attend a Sarah Palin rally, I'd be overjoyed to hear some incredible stupid falling out of her mouth. 
the debate was at a LAW SCHOOL. 
Not a snowballs chance in hell. 
"It's one thing to not know the 17th Amendment or some of the others, but most Americans do know the basics of the First Amendment." O'Donnell didn't respond to reporters who asked her to clarify her views after the debate." Posted by: Big_Ben at October 19, 2010 5:48 PM Anyone who says "Evolution is only a THEORY...it's not a fact" is so stupid; so utterly fucking brainless, uneducated, ignorant, clueless and unread they should immediately be sterilized on the slim chance that there's a genetic component to their imbecility. 
Not knowing what the constitution says when asked is bold font black over white. 
As a defender, you can say, "well, she believes church and state are indivisible, so do I." But you can't say she knows the constitution when she clearly does not. 
It's hilarious when republicans who voted for Bush twice and approved the majority of the way through(approval among republicans was pretty consistent)are telling me about all the mistakes Obama makes and imparting their Bush-loving "wisdom" to those less in-the-know. 
Make no mistake, I'm laughing AT you, Tea Party Republican people. 
That's the real "busted!" moment here, if you ask me. 
Wingnuts will turn blue arguing about a Christian nation and constitution, but not knowing two amendments, as a person running to uphold and defend the constitution containing those amendments, this clip exposes her and the Tea Party faithful as constitutional frauds. 
There's no grey area, here. 
As someone trying to get a government job with great benefits where the qualification is basically, "take this constitution and defend it with your life," Tea Party Republicans spend an awful lot of time tearing it up and reassembling the pieces to their acquired tastes. 
Slightly off-topic, I've been spending a lot of time on potential swing vote forums adding fact to fiction. 
If you think Bush was good enough to vote for twice, and you're one of the 60 million McCain/Palin people, your qualifications and insight, like Christine O'Donnell's, are comical at best. 
Posted by: Irish Girl at October 19, 2010 5:53 PM It's beyond frustrating to me, as someone who has studied Constitutional Law, who competed on the the national level on it in law school, and who published an article on it, to hear people who clearly haven't done the first of these talk about it as if they know better than I do what the Constitution says, means, and is all about. 
Posted by: GrafZeppelin127 at October 19, 2010 6:41 PM I thinks this illustrates their biblical view of the Constitution, and by that I mean they regard it the same way as they regard the Holy Bible. 
Oh, and like the Holy Bible, that we mere mortals are not supposed to question or interpret, they'll let us know what it really means and that will often conflict with what it actually says. 
Except for, you know, maybe an amendment barring gay marriage. 
Give 'em a few minutes, though. 
Posted by: Nanotyrannus at October 19, 2010 7:19 PM @GrafZeppellin127 In answer to your question -- where do you go from there? 
they believe the President is not an American. 
they don't understand that "freedom of speech" doesn't mean freedom from consequences. 
they horde food because glenn beck told them so -- they conflate their "movement" with the civil rights movement --they "detain" reporters, on public property, for the crime of asking questions... 
they're crazy -- plain and simple and it's really, really sad. 
The debate was at Widener Law School. 
If they were, they'd be reacting after his comment (and probably booing and calling him a liar) rather than reacting after her comment. 
They would not believe you if you parted the sea for them first. 
While it can be personally satisfying to present all your little ducks in a row, they will never stop erroneously knocking the damn ducks out of line. 
The separation between church and state is what saves us from SHARIA LAW! 
She's not running to win, and if you think she is, you're not paying attention. 
The constant television appearances for the last decade or so. 
The strategy is this: be as foolish as possible, so no one anticipates you actually knowing anything. 
Go on the circuit as a passionate advocate for whatever cause you choose to co-opt. 
In Palin's case, it's the crypto-fascism that oozes within the GOP. 
Do you really think a serious candidate would go around asking for hints during a debate? 
O'Donnell is not that stupid. 
Sorry. 
Poke fun all you want, but at least be realistic with yourselves: you have just as much fun as they're having. 
This is why they're not making a full investment in her. 
Posted by: Lexaburn at October 19, 2010 11:17 PM Elvis, having watching the video several times, I have to disagree. 
However, she clearly thinks she that she has scored a huge win and that the audience was on her side. 
Posted by: DC at October 19, 2010 11:23 PM Oh, and ELDING, their reaction stems from the fact that she broached the subject again after the moderator moved on. 
She did it on purpose, not to further the discussion, but to establish that, yes, she is a dependable dumbass. 
It if really is a game for O'Donnell, then what's the end game? 
Being a perpetual campaigner can only get you so far, and if they don't intend to win after getting the nomination, then that con game is limited. 
Posted by: Broadway Carl at October 20, 2010 12:29 AM @Nicole, hi! 
I've been awol due to having a baby....little Liam was born on 9/21 (a couple of weeks early but he's doing well). 
To tell the truth, I can't tell you her actual "endgame," per se, but if I had a guess it would be an extended stint on a cable news channel. 
Palin took standards out of the equation when she quit her job. 
Well, Palin did anyway. 
My friend describes her as a "bad actress" primarily, that co-opts "conservativism," but doesn't necessarily cling to it as some may believe. 
O'Donnell is described as a normal conservative Republican woman by my friend. 
That is the lifestyle choice she has made, and she's sticking with it. 
However, I can't be too conclusive... 
Do not try to make sense out of anything of this if you're not thinking like a...celebrity of whatever quality, let's say. 
Go through all, and see if her point of view EVER evolves beyond the con-servative blather or the crank conspiracy theories. 
What exactly is she adding to these conversations? 
It's a perpetual cycle. 
You see how Rove immediately rejected her. 
In fact, my theory is that Rove wasn't so much as rejecting her, as limiting her role within the media environment. 
This all comes from my observing her debate performances, as well as her more recent TV appearances. 
Palin's taking time away from them, but she has her own plans, which have yet to be revealed (though they may be all too obvious). 
It's an odd combination - knowing you don't really have a solid grasp on a subject, but still being convinced that one's core principals are enough to overcome any obstacle. 
She's a Jesus freak. 
The only reason she's a Republican / Tea Party gangster is because her brand of theocracy and batshit stupidity would simply never fly anywhere else. 
Facts don't matter. 
That she lies about her academic credentials, inflates beyond all reason and truth the actual degree of study she has accomplished, does not in any way diminish her insistence that she IS highly educated - really VERY knowledgeable about all of these things she doesn't know about. 
She read a pamphlet from the Discovery Institute that totally explains the difference between Creationism and Intelligent Design...which are not the same things, not at all, and anyone who says they are is just wrong. 
But fuck it. 
And if you disagree with her, then you are properly an object of scorn and derision for being so poorly informed about things. 
She may well know that she's unelectable. 
Christine O'Donnell doesn't have a hidden agenda. 
As for why she consistently gets to appear on television: She's fuckable, in that weird Sarah Palin way that makes me recoil in horror and wonder what the fuck is wrong with anyone who would touch those women with their worst enemy's cock. 
She KNOWS things, see? 
Frankly I think it's the result of the move in the 70's and 80's to tell students that they were ALL special; that no one was any better or any smarter than anyone else; that everyone has a RIGHT to their own opinion; to make sure that everyone who played the game got a trophy. 
YOU don't know what you're talking about!" Knowing she's going to lose is not the same thing as running TO lose... 
She thinks she's right today, and she will think she's right after being stomped to death at the polls. 
Posted by: cousinavi at October 20, 2010 4:43 AM Lex - Thanks for the clarification. 
But I'm still going to think that her smile wasn't so much that she's in on the joke as it was she really does think she knows what she's talking about. 
To just shrug your shoulders and throw a hail mary pass with a smile on your face would be suicidal. 
Posted by: Broadway Carl at October 20, 2010 9:56 AM Avi- I agree with you completely, except that I believe the "everyone is special" crowd started in the 90's. 
The "entitlement because I deserve it" generation is currently in their early to mid 20's. 
Fermentation: The Daily Wine Blog Eminent Domain Used To Usurp Wine Label Real Estate I was disappointed, though not surprised, to see that today a conjunctive labeling law dictating that "Sonoma County" be placed on every label on wines produced from grapes grown in Sonoma County was unanimously passed by the California Legislature . 
According to Noreen Evans, an Assembly sponsor of the bill, this new conjunctive labeling law "requires that any wine labeled with an American Viticultural Area (AVA) located entirely within Sonoma County -  like Russian River Valley or Dry Creek Valley - must also include the word "Sonoma County" on the label, starting in 2014. 
Beginning in 2014, "Sonoma County" will receive a tremendous boost in recognition due to the conjunctive labeling law that forces vintners to add more wording to their labelswhether they think the words "Sonoma County" help or hurt their marketing efforts. 
They point to the prestige that the "Napa Valley" designation carries. 
It has to do entirely with the promotional effort that has gone into making "Napa Valley" a place associated with great wines. 
The vintners in Sonoma County simply can't make a case for "Sonoma County" having any meaning or for a region as vast as "Sonoma County" delivering any degree of quality to the grapes. 
This is an example of a County usurping the private label real estate, and it's very valuable real estate, for the sake of promoting something that is of little use to private commercial interests. 
Comments Nick Perdiew said... 
You found a way to tie this in nicely. 
It's just unnecessary. 
August 30, 2010 at 11:44 AM James McCann said... 
August 30, 2010 at 11:59 AM John Kelly said... 
And I am really pissed. 
I've got real skin in this game. 
Our best option looks like we will go to "North Coast" or "California" for our front label appellation, and discuss the grape source, vineyard name and meaningful AVA on the back label. 
I estimate the value to be in six figures, and we are a small winery. 
Eminent domain is exactly right - this is nothing less than governmental "taking." The legislators who backed this should be ashamed. 
August 30, 2010 at 12:04 PM Hardy Wallace said... 
August 30, 2010 at 12:20 PM JohnLopresti said... 
I support the new labeling requirement. 
Sonoma county now is as good or better than those early Napa vintages. 
I suppose the new law is all Sacramento hype. 
I admit I have voted for the bill's authoress. 
The ambience in the town Sonoma is only an enclave; it is rightfully proud of its heritage as a village, and for its viticultural traditions. 
August 30, 2010 at 01:24 PM Nick Perdiew said in to JohnLopresti... 
What do you make of the fact that vintners *already* are free to put Sonoma County on any label they want? 
August 31, 2010 at 10:40 AM JohnLopresti said... 
I can see Tom W's concerns, too. 
One rambling article's author counted 16 occurrences of the word Napa on the newly designed label of a famous budget wine producer's 2005 Napa cabernet sauvignon. 
The links for @2:04: Kelo">http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=us&vol=000&invol=04-108">Kelo http://citizensvoice.com/arts-living/2.212/2.213/fred-franzia-wine-s-archie-bunker-with-a-dose-of-donald-trump-1.564510? 
what business is it of State government what terminology goes on wine labels? 
and how can the state legislature single out two counties (first Napa, now Sonoma) for this treatment? 
I had thought of the kiltman with respect to a new AVA in Yorkville highlands, thinking the Scot might have interest in playing the bagpipes in the uplands. 
It's easy to get lost in nomenclatures, when one is striving for new concepts. 
Winkler heat summation datapoints also clarified several decades ago some of the plant physiologic underpinnings of why Napa county and Sonoma county were the natural leaders in premium winegrape production. 
September 01, 2010 at 04:22 PM JohnLopresti said... 
OK, so here's the real requirement: "Any wine labeled with an American Viticultural Area established yada yada, that is located entirely within yada yada, shall bear the designation "Sonoma County" on the label in a type size not smaller than two millimeters on containers of more than 187 milliliters or smaller than one millimeter on containers of 187 milliliters or less." If I recall correctly, this is almost exactly the same as the requirement for the government warning type size. 
But this prestige has nothing to due with the law that demands "Napa Valley", in addition to simply "Rutherford", be placed on these wines. 
Such an association will not be made with "Sonoma County" wines...ever. 
Perhaps the proponents of the law are not doing the job they were hired to do, perhaps the SCV needs a more passionate communicator on their marketing team, putting together the quality promotion you suggest is impossible. 
That, the fact that their wines cost less on average, and the wineries are friendlier, less snooty is a compelling story to get out to the public. 
You suggest that this is a bad law, that Sonoma County will never be associated with high quality wine in the way Napa County is. 
I have confidence they will change, retool, improve, live up to their responsibilities. 
Selling the magic of Sonoma County wines is easy. 
5034 . 
But what is truly remarkable (and likely a result of the wholesalers' hubris stemming from 75 years of being granted government welfare) is their willingness to misrepresent facts, ignore the truth, and mislead in their defense of H.R. 
For the sake of context and setting the record straight, this post address many of the misrepresentations and misleading claims made at the middlemen's disingenuous new website. 
is under attack. 
Even in the wake of successful suits that challenged the protectionist laws that wholesalers originally pushed, the state retained extraordinarily broad authority to maintain a robust system of alcohol controls. 
As for those that have "concern", let's recall that it's only a tiny fraction of state alcohol regulators, that there is no formal support from state attorneys general, only a mere handful of public health advocates, a selection of recipients of campaign contributions from wholesalers and wholesalers themselves that support H.R. 
"According to a recent national poll conducted by the Center for Alcohol Policy, 79% of respondents support the right of individual states to set their own laws and regulations surrounding the sale of alcohol and 87% agree that state and local laws regarding alcohol regulations should be decided by lawmakers and citizens, not by judges." I'm shocked, shocked i say, that the "center for alcohol policy" is an arm of the national beer wholesalers association and that it would conduct a poll that finds results supporting those that funded the poll. 
On the "Fact v. 
It does not preempt a state law that allows direct shipping. 
H.R. 
And we know such laws would be introduced into various states since wholesalers have seen to it that such laws have been introduced into state legislatures for the past 20 years. 
5034 would allow states to pass laws that make consumers receipt of a wine by in-state shippers legal while making receipt of a wine by out-of-state shippers punishable to a greater degree than rape, home invasion or selling cocaine to children. 
Better to call the introduction of H.R. 
It's no coincidence that brewers large and small, wineries, spirit producers and importers, retailers, wine education organizations, wine consumers and free trade organizations all oppose H.R. 
"This bill does not amend or alter the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act) which provides federal guidelines in many of these areas" No it doesn't "amend" the faa act. 
To quote from H.R. 
5034 "does not amend" federal regulations on alcohol is a straight up misrepresentation. 
But this goes beyond even my expectation. 
5034 is precisely to overturn the granholm v. 
More importantly, the very language of H.R. 
All the state needs to do is offer the feeblest of justifications. 
Furthermore, note that wine retailers are not even covered by this duplicitous language on "justification". 
"Over half the states have been sued challenging their alcohol laws. 
checks) to buy alcohol" In fact, face-to-face transactions are not needed for I.D checks. 
Checks to be made at the point of delivery of the wine. 
Constitution." Judges never have set policy. 
This is the big lie the wholesalers tell. 
After that, the state legislatures, in every state where litigation has affected badly crafted laws, went about legislating a fix. 
Constitution. 
Will they argue that state laws banning African-Americans from being distributors is legal under the 21st Amendment? 
The wholesalers would have argued that the racist "separate but equal" philosophy had no business being litigated and that we should wait for the legislatures that enacted the racist laws to overturn them with new laws. 
But of course, wholesalers know this. 
I urge all readers to sign up for those emails . 
It is published by the Specialty Wine Retailers Association and upon reading through it, you should find yourself feeling much cleaner and less soiled than after wading through the misrepresentations of the new wholesaler-sponsored website on H.R. 
> Comments Scott said... 
Maybe try more exclamation points.... 
Tom -- thanks so much for keeping us all up to date and informed regarding this silly...but very real threat...not only to our industry but to our basic rights as consumers. 
Scott: Thanks for the tips. 
July 16, 2010 at 09:42 AM Bill Sprow said... 
If I as a resident of Ohio want to purchase a bottle of Californis wine on line and have it shipped to me in Ohio without interference from anyone else. 
Interesting!, Wholesalers issue.Thanks for sharing your link. 
July 17, 2010 at 12:35 PM JohnLopresti said... 
NB: the article is in a trade journal available by online subscription $ only. 
Tom: Thanks for this passionate polemic, a foreceful and sorely needed rebuttal to a bogus bill. 
Seems like some old geezers are filling their pockets with some major greenbacks getting this bill passed through. 
Since I live in Texas Ill have to resort to buying O'Douls and Welchs grape juice after the Baptists take control of the law in the State legislature. 
July 19, 2010 at 09:12 AM r said... 
I am speechless. 
You do have a few valid points but they too may be predicated on false premise, I do not claim to be the all knowing expert. 
In short the wine has to go from point A to B in some way. 
It sounds like you would prefer you government welfare to go there instead? 
perhaps you forgot. 
In Oregon for instance there are about 60 wholesalers competing for partnerships on both the supply and the demand side, hardly the ideal monopoly situation. 
A very important point to remember: While large "commercial wineries" (Factory wine producers) may have the ability to market their own wine, smaller growers whom you seem to be so concerned about do not have the proper infrastructure to allow wine sales on line in many cases, let alone having their own transportation infrastructure. 
July 27, 2010 at 09:08 PM alean said... 
Quite informative blog.My friends would definitely appreciate knowing these facts. 
I definitely want to read more on that blog soon. 
This is my Good luck that I found your post which is according to my search and topic, I think you are a great blogger, thanks for helping me outta my problem.. 
Oh, the numbers look good, but when you dig a little deeper a different picture emerges. 
What happened? 
Well, yes and no. 
But how did you come to get those fans? 
Let's look at my old favorite , TGI Friday's: If you can see this, then you might need a Flash Player upgrade or you need to install Flash Player if it's missing. 
Remember that ad? 
In fact, as I recall, they got over 1 million Facebook fans. 
But then something not so awesome happened. 
TGI Friday's completely lost control of the page and eventually doled out a lot of free burgers. 
But they decided to go the Social Media route. 
It's gone. 
How come? 
A TGI Friday's Facebook page does exist, with roughly a third of the fans they used to have. 
The ability to target your demo is really terrific, but you're in danger of creating a relationship with fans that ultimately is built on a "what have you done for me lately" foundation. 
You paid Facebook for the right to target them. 
This sets up a pattern where the consumer now expects to be rewarded for being your fan with a tangible item, that is, free stuff. 
Want me as a fan? 
The point of Social Media isn't to distribute coupons and a real fan wants to engage with a brand for a whole host of reasons, often free / discounted product is the least of these reasons. 
As a reward for people who have engaged with the brand in a meaningful way. 
Recruit some friends and I'm happy to give you all some coupons. 
Kathy Sharpe says: April 18, 2010 at 1:02 pm About time there was some acknowledgement of the true value of fans. 
How soon is now? 
He's also a very astute individual who understands how to use the media -- and various communication channels -- to his advantage. 
Lebron didn't play college basketball, he went straight from high school to the pros, and since joining the Cleveland Cavaliers he's won exactly zero NBA champions. 
Earlier this week Lebron jumped on Twitter and quickly gained a massive following. 
But I'm starting to wonder if Lebron isn't painting himself into a corner, and has maybe misread how quickly sentiment can change. 
That's one of the reasons Shaq's been a huge hit on Twitter . 
I think an appropriate comparison might be Alex Rodriguez. 
By making his announcement in this public way, Lebron has only heaped more pressure on himself. 
James now finds himself in the following position: 1. 
Not winning a title will be seen as a massive disappointment 3. 
He's put himself in a position where if he leaves Cleveland, every other city (and Cleveland) will be rooting against him Sounds just like Alex Rodriguez, doesn't it? 
Winning championships. 
Let's see what the future holds for Lebron. 
Make sure it's clear that the team comes first and that he's looking forward to being part of the team. 
Update 2: And so it begins... 
Wednesday, 26 May 2010 The effect of not being on vacation in Italy on a man with a tall stack of papers to grade. 
As evidence of how thoroughly corrupt the region is, I present a picture (courtesy of her) of the cabin she'll be staying in free of charge until July: That's the view she'll be writing her dissertation to the next two months. 
So the only opportunity I have to talk to her (via Skype) is that last hour in the late evening when the loft cools enough to be habitableprovided, of course, that the wifi strength that evening is strong enough to establish and maintain a connection. 
But this post isn't about how melancholy I become when I haven't heard from her by 3 p.m. 
I've written about Urbino before , but because the wife is providing me with such dazzling photographs of the city, I feel compelled to do so again. 
This photograph of the dueling signs for the Hotel Raffaello the wife snapped the other day typifies the way the city feels: You can enter the hotel either through the door with the green awning or the second story window of an adjacent building. 
*If it wasn't, even Homer nods? 
If she is working, she is not on vacation. 
I know this is over kill, but you need to get out of the funk you are in and grade the papers and finish the course so you can get some down time and catch up on your sleep. 
I'm having to live it through my beautiful, vacationing wife. 
United carbon offset disappointment April 27, 2009 9:08 AM I'm a big believer in carbon offsets (not so much the cap and trade game, but in the simple internalize-your-externality-sort). 
We're a couple months late buying credits for last year. 
But to calculate it accurately requires churning through a pile of flights. 
But I want something more accurate. 
It allows you to input total miles flown, but its Mileage Plus page doesn't give you total miles flown, it gives you the total added to your account (included bonuses, etc.) Looking forward to version 2.0. 
April 27, 2009 9:53 AM Padraic: Why aren't you a supporter of cap & trade? 
April 27, 2009 10:20 AM lessig: I favor a mandatory scheme -- internalize your externality. 
It seems like a complicated partial version of that, created by the same genius quants who gave us the mess on wall street, that is designed to generate large fees finance types. 
April 27, 2009 12:07 PM Padraic Ryan: Re: cap & trade - you shouldn't use the financial crisis as an excuse to write off all of economics. 
You're right that a carbon tax is definitely simpler, but there are upsides to cap & trade as well (such as the fact that the market will drive the price up, whereas a tax won't increase unless Congress wants it to). 
My problem with carbon offsets and other voluntary measures is that given the finite amount of money, energy and attention we have to push for the environment, I feel like the opportunity cost of these measures is too high compared to policy-oriented actions, the citizen role that Gore referred. 
I'm a big fan of your work on IP and corruption, but I'm skeptical of these initial ventures into the environmental arena... 
April 27, 2009 2:51 PMCathy: When you book a route on United it tells you how many miles it will accrue, pre-bonus, for each leg. 
You should see this on a screen before you purchase the ticket, and possibly also after. 
So cut and paste into your spreadsheet and it should be fine. 
so you can fill in the real mileage to L.A. 
April 27, 2009 6:03 PMYaacov Iland: I'd check into the effectiveness of carbon offsets, particularly tree plantations, before spending money on them: http://www.newint.org/features/2006/07/01/keynote/ April 28, 2009 9:03 AM Jardinero1: The only way to reduce your carbon footprint, is to reduce your carbon footprint, period. 
If you don't believe that and still insist on paying someone else to consume less, then please consider paying me. 
We rarely travel. 
We cook from whole ingredients and never eat processed or prepared foods. 
They are both ten years old and we probably won't replace them for another ten years. 
I keep the thermostat high in the summer and low in the winter. 
I removed all the turf from my property and replaced it with vines and perennials. 
No motorized equipment is required to maintain my garden which is now over ten thousand square feet of CO2 consuming plants. 
In return, I would submit to an audit of my lifestyle and I would issue him a certificate stating the amount of his carbon offset. 
More modern, but just as dumb. 
Carbon offsets 'harm environment' http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6378471.stm Tuesday, 20 February 2007, 17:31 GMT Jutta Kill, of the Forests and the European Union Resource Network (FERN), was the most vehement opponent of the practice, arguing it probably did more harm than good. 
In addition, "More than half" of the money given to companies selling carbon offsets went on research and administration costs, "benefiting not the climate but the burgeoning consultancy industry". 
Illusions are powerful around here, it seems. 
May 14, 2009 2:45 PM Jason Sperling: It's nice to see feedback on the United program. 
Currently many companies are reticent to putting something in their purchase path as an upsell, just as they are reticent to putting anything in their purchase path. 
When the type of program you imagine IS put in place, the results have been very good. 
Somewhere in California, a blighted, mosquito-vector abandoned property is about to get an echinacea dose via seedbomb. 
Understand that a job worth doing is worth doing crappily. 
Nothing worth doing was learned perfectly the first time. 
Here's where we started - Gift seeds of California Poppy via Jessica Reeder's mom. 
2. 
Use seeds of any kind, even dumpster-salvaged ones, or the ones that might be too old for the garden. 
Or you could go out to the shed and grab a few handfuls of that sod mix you got at that estate sale last year and get to mixing. 
Dust can fly into your mouth and eyes very easily. 
Use gloves to break up the soil with your fingers. 
Make bombs. 
You're going to be throwing them. 
Mine were more or less matzoh-ball size and shape, out of habit. 
Allow to dry overnight, or until they're solid enough for the next step. 
Throw. 
I chose one abandoned property a few minutes from downtown, and two vacant lots. 
I found this hard to do while also avoiding cops, dealing with the camera and the car window, scoping out angles of approach for throwing, etc. 
Also, a perfect strike. 
Second Lesson -- keep the seedbombs in a shallow covered container . 
Plus, those things are crumbly. 
And the last lesson -- have fun . 
No one I know is getting digg'd or favrd yet for throwing color and scent around the ghetto. 
You may want to keep checking on your flowers (I promise I will) or you might get an idea to do something else completely unexpected (I did). 
Earth is my friend, like that old classmate who you keep forgetting to drop a note to on Facebook. 
I did it by throwing flowers all along those places no one goes, but where our planet's future lives. 
Yes, yes, I know, you know of much better places to never throw those seedbombs you haven't made. 
A job worth doing is worth doing crappily. 
6 Responses to "The Apocalyptic Housewife Goes Seedbombing" Kate 25. 
Didn't know there was a term for it- my mom and aunt have been seed bombing for years. 
Raggedy Anarchy 25. 
Your mom and aunt sound great. 
Turns out he had been a brilliant biology student before losing derferment and going to Vietnam. 
We are everywhere. 
Nov, 2009 at 10:52 am Loved this! 
Yeah, I know, "Texas has plenty of blue bonnets," you say ... 
That was nice of you. 
Well done. 
I am not nice, young, hip, white, rich, educated, suburban or any of the other things you are unconsciously assuming anyone who loves the earth must be. 
I love bringing apt quotations and poems to awkward occasions the way another guest would bring a box of See's. 
I'm the Apocalyptic Housewife. 
It makes me a little nicer. 
This has been a bad week for liars. 
Ms. 
This is my favorite line in the whole NYT article: "Sarah McGrath, the editor at Riverhead who worked with Ms. 
But seriously, you may remember an article last summer that appered in TimeOut New York about matters of race in publishing. 
I can't help but wonder if Ms. 
Comment #1, by carleen I read that article in the Times and IMMEDIATELY thought it was going to be a hoax. 
March 3, 2008 11:20 PM Comment #2, by Michael Fischer Um, wow. 
March 3, 2008 11:43 PM Comment #3, by Sarah Schulman I wonder why they didn't present their books as novels. 
Noshin' at the Tupelo Honey Cafe | Plus, how to get great service in busy restaurants 23 Mar., 2010 By the time I got to Asheville, I was nearing the end of my journey and the bottom of my wallet. 
But. 
So I checked their website, and instantly fell in love: "Tupelo Honey Caf opened in downtown Asheville in 2000, an early pioneer in the farm to fork movement and an active advocate for the independent restaurant landscape that pervades the city. 
Our cuisine salutes our love of Southern traditions at the table, but like the good people of Asheville, marches to its own drum. 
By the time I finally got a seat at the counter, I was starved. 
Free range? 
While I waited for the food, I checked out the back of the store where Tupelo Honey Cafe hawks their homestyle wares: preserves, pickles, salsa, honey, t-shirts, aprons and all sorts of mini-advertisements for the restaurant. 
There's nothing wrong with it: the food in those jars is probably delicious, though I question whether the $10 tupelo honey had to come from Florida or if it's produced locally. 
Some of that is surely due to good marketing, but the real reason for its popularity is this: That sandwich was so good, I found myself eating slower and slower with each bite to savor it more completely. 
I found myself silently thanking the chicken for its delicious contribution. 
I will never forget you. 
I stopped so I could take the rest home and taste it again later. 
If you're going to a busy restaurant and want great service, bring a camera. 
Now, I'm not saying the service before my camera-flash was bad, because it was awesome. 
Which, it just so happens, I am. 
I can't guarantee it'll work, but I personally will do it againand probably back it up with a stellar review, just like the one I've given the Tupelo Honey Cafe. 
Okay, that's it! 
Sep, 2009 This post is the first of a three-part series on bike culture. 
Remember how much fun you used to have on that bike, how fast you went, how great it felt? 
And there are no two ways about it: if you give a kid a bike, that kid will ride. 
He's somewhat of a man brain trust , and one of his best creations is the Troy Bike Rescue . 
When Andrew decided to leave town for a few years' schooling in NYC, friends and cohorts took over operations. 
They get it. 
More than a toy, it's an equalizer that allows poor kids to ride with rich. 
When I visited the TBR shop, it was packed with frames, wheels, gears, chains, handlebars, kids, and anarchist art (the space is being donated by some supporters who are also anti-capitalist activists). 
The idea is to give people a workspace and teach them how to maintain their own bicycle. 
A young kid came in to say his last bike was stolen and he needed a new one (and, despite Andrew's stern reprimand that he couldn't just walk in every week and leave with a free bike, he did just that). 
And as we left at the end of the workshop, a woman walked up to Andrew. 
"I have a whole bunch of bikes to give you." See, ultimately TBR is about more than just bicycles. 
This is not the world's first bike collective; in fact it's only one of many that have stealthily sprung up around America. 
You too can change the world: all you have to do is ride a bike. 
It doesn't have to be perfect, just good enough to get you places. 
Then keep going! 
Ride it to the corner store when you need milk, instead of driving across town to the grocery store. 
Tell the store owner what you like, and see if he'll carry it. 
It doesn't have to be a workout: you can just toodle around town and look at stuff. 
Unless you live on a major highway, odds are you can ride straight from your front porch to someplace interesting. 
It's cheaper, and much better for the local flora&fauna. 
Then think of it this way: by riding your bike instead of driving your car, you're reducing your consumption of fossil fuels. 
Can't find a bike community? 
5 Responses to "Save the World, Ride a Bike" Karen Turnbull 01. 
In the meantime you might like this blog post i cam across: http://blog.sophianetwork.org.uk/2009/09/women-tackling-climate-change.html Raggedy Annarchy 01. 
Bike rescue is not just for kids. 
Shame, shame. 
Fall is exactly 79% more tingly when experienced by bike. 
Read about death & carnage in the shell shop , find out about the eco-friendly food scene , look at the pretty pretty sunset , or continue on... 
With his long hair, scruffy beard and t-shirt, he'd fit in more at a Phish show than behind a plow. 
To wit: in 2009, David helped launch the Truro Ag Fair -- an event that exceeded all expectations and brought huge crowds to local farmers' booths. 
And he manages the First Light Organic Farm, a lush green spot in a hollow of North Truro. 
David's a dedicated and inspired agrarian, whose passion for farming keeps him optimistic. 
The hard truth: The soil of North Truro is not strong enough to support agriculture. 
David points out a patch of sand with a thin strip of fertile loam along the edge. 
"This is what happens," David says. 
Last year's rich loam is now useless sand. 
The Outer Cape is really just a spit of sand -- but still, farmers lived here for generations. 
Salt marsh hay. 
This was called "salt marsh haying". 
This makes it an excellent and bountiful source of compost, and it was used for generations as a soil enricher. 
All the nutrients get depleted." That means soil left for two months without fresh compost will become -- you guessed it -- sand. 
That means truckloads of hay, and that means a lot of work. 
It worked -- but it cost money, and it disappeared fast into the hungry ground. 
In bygone times, the whole town of North Truro would pitch in on haying days; now, David's on his own. 
Provincetown's official population of 3,500 supports a tourism industry that serves millions of visitors each year. 
And then they go out to eat. 
Raina Stefani serves David's produce at her restaurant Terra Luna , but it only makes up a portion of her fares: the rest has to be shipped from the mainland. 
End of story. 
David isn't alone: he's got the support (and companionship) of a growing group of gamechangers. 
The same population that would consume the food produced here is actively inhibiting its production. 
After all, what's the point of farming on the beach? 
Sep, 2010 at 7:52 am If, someone could start bedding the outer cape's horses, with this Hay/Straw. 
They wouldn't have to be standing on the acidic sand all of the time. 
The straw, should be separated from the manure and dried in the air, then buised, by hooves. 
How soon is now? 
But bubbling below the surface was Blade and other genre flicks, then Twilight hit and now vampires are hot. 
Ninja Warrior is one of the most popular shows on G4. 
No, actually, if we've learned anything it's that genre memes just go back underground ( Pirates for adults [NSFW]You get the point0. 
So it's not just a matter of knowing when to jump off the Vampire merry-go-round, it's knowing when (and where) to jump back on. 
Fourteen literary agents rejected it before Stephenie Meyer got a deal. 
I don't think you can "get off" any of these, you have to triangulate your decision across several nodes of popular culture, a triangulation that has to revolve around the audience (young adult -- Twilght. 
So what sort of matrix board do you have to create to know that a NC-17 comedy horror Zombie video game will work, but a PG-13 young adult time-travelling Vampire TV show won't? 
All you can do is hope you bat .300 and that when you fail, you fail fast . 
If you broaden your scope a bit, I think it would be difficult to find a time over the last 40 years or so when any of these four archetypes didn't have a level of bubbling popularity via books, comic books, tv, movies, video games, music. 
Somebody at AMC is greenlighting The Walking Dead based partly on historical evidence that says people like Zombies, but also partly on the notion that this particular iteration will have a new twist that will bring new people into the (zombie and AMC) tent . 
Ninja Vampires. 
This post was inspired by a recent post by Grant McCracken . 
3 Comments Matthew Duhan says: July 26, 2010 at 5:13 pm I don't know about Pirate Zombies v. 
We do have an expansion planned, which will add Vampires (among other Types) to the mix. 
Jewell Bardwell says: July 30, 2010 at 4:06 am Incredibly effectively performed without a doubt. 
I could sit and watch all day long if I didn't have school..or life to stay me from doing it! 
After a couple of months I made the move back to Enron and went to the New York office and work with the Enron Metals group here at 53rd street. 
I was on the trading floor working with Dave Delainey's group when he was in ENA and also was the Exec Secretary/Coordinator with the MWB group in George Warsoff's group. 
Lay: I'm writing this note to you as a show of support to you during your dire times. 
My wife is one of your employees who routinely shares stories about you that are nothing less than inspiring. 
I believe that you are sincere man and know that you must be broken hearted, but I hope that this article can help you lead a dispirted workforce to see things more clearly. 
Of course, I accept most of the blame for this for reasons related to this article. 
Lay, I appreciate the opportunity that you have given my wife and our family and hope that this story inspires you to regain your successes. 
"In recession, face brutal facts, thrive" By Jim Collins A man in his early 20s recently asked me, "So what's a recession like?" Its an entirely alien concept to him; he'd grown up during the greatest economic boom in modern memory. 
Adm. 
military officer in the Hanoi prison camp during the Vietnam War. 
He shouldered the burden of command while fighting an internal war against his captors and their attempts to use the prisoners for propaganda. 
After his release, Stockdale became the first three-star officer in the history of the Navy to wear both aviator wings and the Congressional Medal of Honor. 
In preparation, I read In Love and War, the book he and his wife wrote to chronicle their experiences those 8 years. 
It just seemed so bleak - the uncertainty of his fate, the brutality of his captors. 
I'm getting depressed reading this, and I know that he gets out, reunites with his family and becomes a national hero. 
Finally, I asked, "Who didn't make it out?" "Oh, that's easy," he said. 
I don't understand," I said, completely confused. 
Oh, they were the ones who said, 'We're going to be out by Christmas.' And Christmas would come, and Christmas would go. 
And then Thanksgiving, and then it would be Christmas again. 
You must never confuse faith that you will prevail in the end - which you can never afford to lose - with the need for discipline to confront the most brutal facts of your current reality, whatever they might be." My conversation with Stockdale had a profound influence on me, but I never really considered it a business lesson until my research team began to wrestle with the question of why some companies rise from difficulty to become great while others emerge from those exact same difficulties weakened and dispirited. 
Fannie Mae, for example found itself in the 1982 recession losing $1M every business day, with $56B in loans under water. 
But CEO David Maxwell and his team never wavered in their aim to not merely survive, but also to prevail as a great company. 
But they used this grim fact as a catalyst for creating an entirely new business model based on asking three central questions of greatness: What can we potentially do better than any other company in the world? 
What best ignites the passions of our people? 
Eventually, it generated investor returns nearly eight times those of the general stock market. 
Their companies will begin to die of a broken heart. 
Those who lead with the Stockdale Paradox - those who retain the unwavering faith that they will find a way to prevail in the end, but who also retain the discipline to confront the most brutal facts of reality - will find this an ideal time to rebuild and reinforce greatness. 
Jim Collins, the author of Good to Great, operates a management-research laboratory in Boulder, Colo. 
I attended a meeting this afternoon of the Coalition of Service Industries, one of the lead groups promoting a wide range of services including energy services in the upcoming WTO GATTS 2000 negotiations. 
CII apparently has a committee looking into the WTO. 
Since returning from the meeting I spoke with Kiran Pastricha and told her the above. 
Joe Joe Hillings 09/08/99 11:57 AM To: Sanjay Bhatnagar/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT cc: Terence H Thorn/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Ashok Mehta/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, John Ambler/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES, Jeffrey Sherrick/Corp/Enron@Enron (bcc: Joe Hillings/Corp/Enron) Subject: India And The WTO Services Negotiation Sanjay: First some information and then a request for your advice and involvment. 
Ken Lay will be among the CEO speakers. 
This morning I visited with Sudaker Rao at the Indian Embassy to tell him about our coalition and to seek his advice on possible interest of the GOI. 
In fact probably Enron and other US companies may be engaging them in India and possibly abroad. 
He agrees with the strategy of our US WTO Energy Services Coalition to work with companies and associations in asking them to contact their government to ask that energy services be on their list of agenda items. 
Sudaker and I agree that you are a key person to advise us and possibly to suggest to CII or others that they make such a pitch to the GOI Minister of Commerce. 
I gave these materials to Sudaker today. 
The Congress will cover many services issues. 
Date: Tue, 1 Aug 2000 02:27:00 -0700 (PDT) From: steven.kean@enron.com To: michael.terraso@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com Subject: Corporate Watch article Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit X-From: Steven J Kean X-To: Michael Terraso, Karen Denne X-cc: X-bcc: X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents X-Origin: KEAN-S X-FileName: skean.nsf ---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/HOU/EES on 08/01/2000 09:24 AM --------------------------- Sherri Sera@ENRON 08/01/2000 09:15 AM To: Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES, Mark Palmer/Corp/Enron@ENRON cc: Subject: Corporate Watch article Steve, Mark - Here's the link to the entire message in the event you're interested...you'll go through several links to get all the information that was posted. 
Date: Mon, 21 Aug 2000 01:00:00 -0700 (PDT) From: steven.kean@enron.com To: james.steffew@enron.com Subject: Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit X-From: Steven J Kean X-To: james steffew X-cc: X-bcc: X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents X-Origin: KEAN-S X-FileName: skean.nsf ---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 08/21/2000 08:00 AM --------------------------- From: Mark E Haedicke@ECT on 08/15/2000 01:37 PM To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron cc: Subject: Per our conversation on coordination of our efforts on California and other jurisdictions, we have developed the following training program: 1. 
2. 
3. 
It also needs to be scheduled in Houston and Calgary. 
There is a similar program being prepared in London. 
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2001 13:00:00 -0700 (PDT) From: steven.kean@enron.com To: maureen.mcvicker@enron.com Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - March 2001 AMEX Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit X-From: Steven J Kean X-To: Maureen McVicker X-cc: X-bcc: X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents X-Origin: KEAN-S X-FileName: skean.nsf ---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 04/15/2001 07:59 PM --------------------------- eserver@enron.com on 04/09/2001 02:41:04 PM To: "Steven.J.Kean@enron.com" <Steven.J.Kean@enron.com> cc: Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - March 2001 AMEX The following expense report is ready for approval: Employee Name: Mark A. 
http://xms.enron.com ---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 04/15/2001 07:59 PM --------------------------- eserver@enron.com on 04/13/2001 02:35:43 PM To: "Steven.J.Kean@enron.com" <Steven.J.Kean@enron.com> cc: Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - JS3/31/01 The following expense report is ready for approval: Employee Name: James Steffes Status last changed by: Automated Administrator Expense Report Name: JS3/31/01 Report Total: $2,796.30 Amount Due Employee: $2,796.30 To approve this expense report, click on the following link for Concur Expense. 
I thought that you would want to take a look at some analysis we have recently completed with regard to the California Power Crisis. 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
Thank you for your cooperation. 
Further, the commission is required to allow scheduled maintenance of only one generator at a time. 
Also, please note it does not apply to munis. 
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 06:49:00 -0800 (PST) From: steven.kean@enron.com To: bernadette.hawkins@enron.com Subject: Ken Lay's email to Sen. 
Brulte Greetings All: First, I am apologizing in advance for any typos in this email. 
Attached is the email that was sent to Ken Lay's office yesterday evening f or delivery to Sen. 
As we discussed (Jim, Mike, Bev, Scott, Hedy) on our lengthy call on Wednesday, I'm assuming that the plan is still to "wallpaper" Sacramento wi th our proposed legislation. 
Mike sent the "final" version s of our legislation out yesterday, except for the siting piece, which I believe Brian Cragg of Mike's office is finalizing today. 
I'm assuming that you folks will handle that end of things. 
This email does, however, include a "summary" of our proposed legislation. 
I think we all agreed that we need a "one pager" to accompany the legislative package so that we can communicate the package effectively. 
We didn't finalize that plan. 
Perhaps we could start with our friends in the Direct Access coalition? 
Note also that Steve Kean reminded me that we've got to continue to push to get the utilities out of the merchant function. 
Thanks to all for helping pull this together. 
There's a hard copy on your chair. 
I have attached talking points regarding the California PUC order and propose d amendments to AB1X. 
Our assessment of the supply/demand picture in California. 
We will deliver to your office tomorrow detailed legislative language. 
I hope that the information is useful. 
Regards, Ken Contact Information to Discuss Interest Expressed by Native American Tribes in Installing Small-scale Generation on Tribal Lands David Parquet, Vice-President Enron North America 101 California Street, Suite 1950 San Francisco, CA 94111 Phone: 415.782.7820 Fax: 415.782.7851 2. 
Utility stand-by charges have always been designed by the utilities to protect their monopoly position, extract monopoly prices from customers, or both. 
Excessive delays and costs related to interconnecting facilities with investor-owned and municipal utilities Solution: The Governor,s executive order regarding interconnection is a step in the right direction*D-D-26-01 requires utilities to complete interconnection studies within 7 days. 
In addition, the financial conflicts the utilities face when interconnecting generation facilities are simply too powerful to overcome through executive orders or other regulations. 
This could be accomplished through amendments to SB 27X. 
Solution: California should ensure that the executive orders (D-22-01 thru D-26-01) issued by the Governor to expedite plant siting and maximize plant output apply equally to smaller scale, "distributed generation" facil ities. 
The State should ensure that local, parochial interests cannot block otherwise beneficial distributed generation projects . 
3. 
We understand that the lion,s share of counterparties share Enron,s c redit risk concerns. 
As such, suppliers have no assurance that the PUC will agree to include in rat es adequate charges to cover DWR,s costs of power purchases. 
Consequently, suppliers have no assurance that the PUC will agr ee to include in rates the charges to cover the costs of power contracts that DWR has entered into with suppliers. 
Again, this ambiguity raises significant credit risk concerns since suppliers have little assurance that DWR will have the ability to recover from ratepayers the costs of purchasing power. 
We have identified three options: Amend AB1X The amendments, which are attached to this email, would clarify that a) the PUC would accept as "prudent and reasonable" all purchase costs incur red by DWR, and b) the PUC is obligated to include in rates the charges necessary to ensure that DWR fully recovers its costs of power purchases. 
We have attached electronic copies of the talking points related to the order that the California PUC would need to issue under this option. 
Those options include a letter of credit, cash prepayment, or an acceptable form of collateral. 
Al l credible sources agree that supply will be very tight throughout the Summer of 2001 and that unless a solution is found immediately, blackouts are likely. 
Since the West relies more heavily upon hydroelectric power than other regions, reserves are particularly important, owing to the unpredictability of the weather and the dry year the West has experienced t o date. 
California's very low reserve margin makes it especially susceptible to this requirement. 
Cambridge Energy Research Associates asserts that at the curren t pace of siting, permitting and construction, adequate supplies will not be added to correct the market imbalance until 2003 at the earliest. 
The CEC paints a considerably more optimistic scenario, betting that California will bring an additional 5,000 MWs on line to meet peaking summer demand. 
We wil l deliver to your office tomorrow specific legislative language and existing bills that we believe can accommodate our proposals. 
Enron and others have completed the entire process in other states in less than a year. 
The Governor's executive orders and Senator Sher's siting reform legi slation are steps in the right direction. 
Enron's proposal seeks to streamline the process for 1) obtaining credits and 2) transfering credits between air districts. 
California could likely reduce demand more economically by running an auction to determine the payments businesses wou ld be willing to receive to reduce their demand for a sustained period (e.g., through the summer months). 
Use Price Signals to Incent Voluntary Curtailment To be successful, customers need access to the following key elements: An internet based hour-ahead price posting system to track the market price for hour-ahead power in real time. 
We estimate that we could generate a summer 2001 on-peak demand response in excess of 400 MW during certain high cost hours, and a demand response for summer 2002 on-peak hours that could exceed 1000 MW. 
We recommend that the State of California provide rebates directly to customers to fund the installation of advanced metering and control systems that would support load curtailment implementation. 
Ironically, AB1X takes that important option away from customers and businesses. 
Enron's legislative proposal would give customers freedom to enter into a direct access transaction, while simultaneously addressing the Department o f Water Resources' concerns about stranded power costs that might result from customer migration. 
Procureme nt is not a utility core competency, as evidenced by the dire financial condition in which the utilities now find themselves. 
To execute the transition, California should hold a series of competitive solicitations over the 36-month period in which competing service providers would bid for the right to serve segments of utility load. 
In short, bankruptcy does nothing to solve California's supply-demand imbalance. 
Finally, bankruptcy will undermine both investor confidence in California's energy markets and the private sector's willingness to participate in that market. 
California should design those rate increases with the dual goal of returning the utilities to solvency without "shocking" the economy or household budgets For example, California could amortize the recovery of the utilities, past debt over a 5-10 year period. 
Second, California can "net" the revenues the utilities have r eceived from selling electricity into the Power Exchange against the debts they hav e accrued due to the retail price cap. 
Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit X-From: Steven J Kean X-To: George Wasaff X-cc: X-bcc: X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Nov2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents X-Origin: KEAN-S X-FileName: skean.nsf ---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 07/06/2001 07:40 AM --------------------------- steve.knight@businesslayers.com on 06/25/2001 12:57:25 PM To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron cc: Subject: Can you help me? 
Steven, if you could take a moment and point me to the appropriate contact I would greatly appreciate it. 
Once provisioned, these resources remain digitally connected to each person as they move through the business cycle and are dynamically updated as necessary. 
Organizations that employ eProvisioning gain a competitive edge and access complete security by ensuring that people are kept productive from day one, and are prevented from becoming counterproductive beyond the day they leave. 
eProvision Day One provides business and IT executives with the ability to quickly identify bottlenecks and maintain accountability of the eProvisioning process through comprehensive reporting and tracking capabilities. 
Please, if you could give me a few minutes of your valuable time or guide me to the right person to describe the significant benefits of what we offer." Web Site: http://www.businesslayers.com Demo-Site: http://demo.businesslayers.com User: blayers Pass: blayers Thank you for your time. 
Message-ID: <5550308.1075857279636.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 6 Jun 2000 04:43:00 -0700 (PDT) From: jwahl@cinergy.com To: benjamin.rogers@enron.com Subject: Confidential Agreement Cc: mcyrus@cinergy.com Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Bcc: mcyrus@cinergy.com This follows up on your voice mail message regarding the status of the Confidentiality Agreement in light of renewed discussions between the two companies. 
Please call me with any comments or questions. 
Please send him this e-mail asap. 
Message-ID: <29555721.1075857154511.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Wed, 14 Jun 2000 06:28:00 -0700 (PDT) From: benjamin.rogers@enron.com To: stuart.zisman@enron.com Subject: Confidential Agreement Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Here is the latest copy. 
I am trying to get this sogned today, so I can head down to Florida to meet up with Don and company. 
Message-ID: <17394516.1075863362388.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Fri, 20 Jul 2001 09:53:03 -0700 (PDT) From: rick.buy@enron.com To: donna.lowry@enron.com Subject: FW: Confidential Information and Securities Trading Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit i think i did this properly. 
rick -----Original Message----- From: Office of the Chairman - Enron Wholesale Services [mailto:legalonline-compliance@enron.com] Sent: Wednesday, July 11, 2001 10:16 AM To: BUY@mailman.enron.com; Buy, Rick Subject: Confidential Information and Securities Trading To:BUY, RICHARD Email:rick.buy@enron.com - 7138534739 Enron Wholesale Services - Office of the Chairman From: Mark Frevert, Chairman & CEO Mark Haedicke, Managing Director & General Counsel Subject: Confidential Information and Securities Trading To keep pace with the fluid and fast-changing demands of our equity trading activities, Enron Wholesale Services ("EWS") has recently revised its official Policies and Procedures Regarding Confidential Information and Securities Trading ("Policies and Procedures"). 
The newly revised Policies and Procedures are available for your review on LegalOnline, the new intranet website maintained by the Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department. 
If you have not certified compliance with the Policies and Procedures during the 2001 calendar year, then you must do so within two weeks of your receipt of this message. 
If you have any questions concerning the Policies or Procedures, please call Bob Bruce at extension 5-7780 or Donna Lowry at extension 3-1939. 
(I will be on vacation tomorrow in any event). 
Comments can be faxed to my attention at 202/338-2416 or emailed to cfr@vnf.com or gdb@vnf.com (Gary Bachman). 
Cheryl Feik Ryan Van Ness Feldman, P.C. 
All comments and suggestions need to be in writing and can be faxed (not E-mailed) to Dan Watkiss at 202-857-2131. 
Donald A. 
Preston Gates Ellis & Rouvelas Meeds LLP Suite 500 1735 New York Avenue, N.W. 
20006 Ph: (202) 662-8466 Fax: (202) 331-1024 donk@prestongates.com (See attached file: TFG SJones Draft 8-25-01.doc)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-6.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-3.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-4.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-5.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-2.doc) CONFIDENTIALITY NOTE: This email message is intended solely for the individual or individuals named above. 
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are requested not to read, copy or distribute it or any of the information it contains. 
Thank you. 
Everybody else: please forward corrections/updates to me. 
He may not want to circulate it to the group. 
This e-mail and the attachments were prepared at the request of counsel. 
The information is intended for the use of the individual or entity named above. 
If you have received this electronic transmission in error, please notify us by telephone (617 425-3582) or by e-mail (postmaster@crai.com) immediately. 
Just wanted to confirm. 
Michelle ---------------------- Forwarded by Michelle Cash/HOU/ECT on 11/01/2000 07:48 PM --------------------------- HThomas@gspcorp.com on 11/01/2000 07:19:00 PM To: michelle.cash@enron.com, david.oxley@enron.com, peter.del.vecchio@enron.com cc: david.howe@enron.com, fran.mayes@enron.com Subject: Privileged and Confidential communication to my attorneys Michelle and Peter, we (GSP) have determined that we are not a federal government contractor. 
(Pat McCarthy, the local employment law attorney that I have been using, used these terms when David Howe and i talked to him today.) Pat informed us that second-tier contractors do not have to abide by all the federal government requirements for contractors. 
In addition, we do not feel that we are subject to an OFCCP audit. 
Please advise us if you feel we have made incorrect assumptions on any of this. 
Message-ID: <9302156.1075858668365.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Wed, 11 Jul 2001 08:17:28 -0700 (PDT) From: steven.kean@enron.com To: jeff.dasovich@enron.com Subject: FINAL Cc: susan.mara@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, b..sanders@enron.com Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Bcc: susan.mara@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, b..sanders@enron.com Attached is the final letter. 
Message-ID: <4890112.1075845067403.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2001 11:52:00 -0700 (PDT) From: beth.apollo@enron.com To: shona.wilson@enron.com, jeffrey.gossett@enron.com, stacey.white@enron.com, d.hall@enron.com, sheri.thomas@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, john.j.boudreaux@us.arthurandersen.com, john.vickers@us.arthurandersen.com, kate.agnew@us.arthurandersen.com, jennifer.stevenson@us.arthurandersen.com Subject: Confidential Folder to safely pass information to Arthur Andersen Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, tom.bauer@us.arthurandersen.com, georgeanne.hodges@enron.com, vanessa.schulte@enron.com, bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, tom.bauer@us.arthurandersen.com, georgeanne.hodges@enron.com, vanessa.schulte@enron.com, bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com We have become increasingly concerned about confidential information (dpr/position info, curves, validations/stress tests, etc) being passed to Arthur Andersen for audit purposes over the Web to their Arthur Andersen email addresses. 
Note: AA should also use the shared drive to pass info back if there are questions, or the data needs updating. 
Please pass this note to others in your groups who have the need to pass info back and forth. 
Arthur Andersen will be able to retrieve these files for review with their terminal server access at the Three Allen Center location. 
kind regards. 
Have you had an opportunity to consider the invitation yet? 
Message-ID: <25447472.1075856582182.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Wed, 14 Jun 2000 09:16:00 -0700 (PDT) From: steven.leppard@enron.com To: dale.surbey@enron.com Subject: Security question Cc: grant.masson@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Bcc: grant.masson@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com Dear guys Having been out of the office for a couple of days, I've found myself the victim of theft (again). 
That couldn't have been a random theft, and I fear this isn't either. 
Can we ask security to check their surveillance footage for any suspicious activity around my desk? 
I can't tell you how many politicians I met over the past year who really don't like markets and certainly don't understand how or why they work. 
I also agree that the academic community can play "an important role in shaping public opinion and in explaining the logic of deregulation process." I'd like to think that is in large part what I have been trying to do. 
Your credit card has been charged $ 5.00. 
The confirmation number for this transaction is NBER_103397 and a summary of your order is below. 
If you have any comments or suggestions about how SSRN can improve this service, please let me know at Mailto:Gregory_Gordon@ssrn.com. 
Vince J Kaminski@ECT 01/11/2000 08:01 AM To: Richard Shapiro/HOU/EES@EES cc: Subject: Congratulations Rick, I have just looked at the memo regarding promotions. 
I have scheduled the following intervie= w: Wednesday, December 6 - 1:00 PM Houston time. 
We will call you at (605) 497-4045 unless otherwise instructed. 
Best regards, Shirley Crenshaw "Jingming 'Marshall' Yan" <jmyan@stanford.edu> on 11/28/2000 12:59:55 PM To: Shirley.Crenshaw@enron.com cc: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com=20 Subject: Re: Telephone Interview with The Enron Corp. 
Crenshaw, Thank you very much for the message. 
Between the two days you suggest, I prefer Wednesday 12/6. 
However, I am open most of the day on 12/6 so if some other time slot is prefered on your end, please let me know. 
I look forward to talking to you and your colleagues. 
The best days would be Tuesday, 12/5 or > Wednesday, 12/6. 
Let me know the telephone number that you wish to be > contacted at. 
Message-ID: <18205244.1075856621671.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 28 Nov 2000 02:59:00 -0800 (PST) From: jmyan@stanford.edu To: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com Subject: Re: Telephone Interview with The Enron Corp. 
Crenshaw, Thank you very much for the message. 
Between the two days you suggest, I prefer Wednesday 12/6. 
The best days would be Tuesday, 12/5 or > Wednesday, 12/6. 
Let me know the telephone number that you wish to be > contacted at. 
> > Best regards, > > Shirley Crenshaw > Administrative Coordinator > Enron Research Group. 
Message-ID: <3454095.1075840788231.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 12:07:33 -0800 (PST) From: j.kaminski@enron.com To: wbalson@crai.com Subject: RE: I've joined Charles River Associates Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Bill, Yes, one of the options I am looking at. 
I'd be interested in your evaluation of Lakima Group, whom I believe you've worked with. 
I've joined Charles River Associates in the Palo Alto office. 
I would like to extend an invitation to get to know us better, and perhaps to collaborate if our interests coincide. 
Bill Balson Vice President Charles River Associates 285 Hamilton Avenue Palo Alto, CA 94301 Direct: 650-847-2227 Cell: 650-823-2510 FAX: 650-325-2488 wbalson@crai.com ********************************************************************** This e-mail is the property of Enron Corp. 
Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. 
at enron.messaging.administration@enron.com and delete all copies of the message. 
(or any of its affiliates) and the intended recipient or any other party, and may not be relied on by anyone as the basis of a contract by estoppel or otherwise. 
Message-ID: <18298171.1075840788676.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 10:22:03 -0800 (PST) From: j.kaminski@enron.com To: vkaminski@aol.com Subject: FW: Issues with Exotica Library Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit -----Original Message----- From: Rajan, Karthik Sent: Monday, January 28, 2002 6:39 PM To: Kaminski, Vince J; Yang, Sean; Stock, Steve Subject: RE: Issues with Exotica Library Vince/Sean, I will talk to you Zimin/ Tom tonight at their home number and get the passwords as well as the security feature. 
Sorry for the delay. 
-----Original Message----- From: Kaminski, Vince J Sent: Mon 1/28/2002 11:27 AM To: Yang, Sean; Rajan, Karthik; Stock, Steve Cc: Subject: Re: Issues with Exotica Library Karthik, If you cannot find the answer, please call Zimin. 
He is the best expert on California right now. 
Would you be able to suggest anyone else - either in Australia, Europe or US who would be good to get to discuss the California crisis? 
Philip -----Original Message----- From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com] Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 12:00 AM To: pannesley@riskwaters.com Cc: Vkaminski@aol.com Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia Philip, I have to decline the invitation with regrets. 
We are aiming to have the programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon as possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress. 
Kind regards. 
-----Original Message----- From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com] Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 10:03 PM To: pannesley@riskwaters.com Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia Philip, Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University. 
Vince -----Original Message----- From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom +3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM To: Kaminski, Vince J Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia Vince Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. 
I have too many commitments right now. 
Have you had an opportunity to consider the invitation yet? 
Message-ID: <14136486.1075858478980.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Thu, 31 May 2001 07:03:21 -0700 (PDT) From: kaminski@enron.com To: pannesley@riskwaters.com Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Philip, Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University. 
Vince -----Original Message----- From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM To: Kaminski, Vince J Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia Vince Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. 
kind regards. 
I have too many commitments right now. 
Have you had an opportunity to consider the invitation yet? 
I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852 2545 2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email. 
Message-ID: <25473912.1075863420369.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 15 May 2001 06:07:31 -0700 (PDT) From: j.kaminski@enron.com To: wade.cline@enron.com Subject: RE: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Wade, Thanks for your help. 
You can resend the undeliverable document to the recipients listed above by choosing the Resend button or the Resend command on the Actions menu. 
Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate cc: Pinnamaneni Krishnarao/ENRON@enronXgate From: Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT Date: 05/14/2001 12:49:39 AM CDT Subject: Re: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni Vince, I will certainly try. 
Our earlier requests for visas from Chennai have been a very mixed bag, with us being turned down more often than not. 
Once they say no, it is very difficult to reverse. 
Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate, Pinnamaneni Krishnarao/ENRON@enronXgate Subject: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni Wade, I am writing to ask you to help my associate, Krishnarao Pinnamaneni, who faces a very difficult personal situation. 
A brief outline of the facts. 
His wife is pregnant. 
2. 
The application for a tourist visa was denied and the reason given for the denial was that they had overstayed the term of the visa during the previous visit. 
The company can, of course, intervene on Krishna's behalf. 
I am sure that Ken Lay would have no objections to write a letter on his behalf to the State Department. 
I shall fax to you a copy of the decision. 
Message-ID: <24575622.1075863420436.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Tue, 15 May 2001 06:09:33 -0700 (PDT) From: j.kaminski@enron.com To: steve.leppard@enron.com Subject: RE: Final Research PRC Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Steve, It will be my pleasure. 
Message-ID: <12911969.1075840163875.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2001 21:32:00 -0700 (PDT) From: jeff.skilling@enron.com To: kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net Subject: Re: Information for Jeff Skilling from Kevin Scott Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Confirming 1:00 p.m. 
Thanks, Joannie Williamson 713-345-7774 "Kevin Scott" <kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net> on 04/25/2001 04:46:18 PM Please respond to <kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net> To: "Jeff Skilling" <jeff.skilling@enron.com> cc: "Sherri Sera" <sherri.sera@enron.com> Subject: Information for Jeff Skilling from Kevin Scott April 25, 2001 Dear Jeff, Thank you for setting aside time to meet with me. 
As you will see, I have been providing advisory services since 1995. 
I am proud of the service that I have rendered as an independent consultant. 
I look forward to sitting down with you to think through ways to apply my experience, intellect and energies to new professional challenges. 
Finally, I am attaching the recommendation to HBS that you wrote in 1981. 
Your historic words of support helped me keep fighting and successfully moving forward. 
Thank you again. 
As you indicated would happen, Kalen Pieper called me mid-week. 
She explored my views about doing business with government. 
(I must confess that after all the great things I have heard about the man, I do look forward to meeting Dave himself.) Is there a time next week that I can speak with you by phone to fine-tune my thinking / preparation for Thursday's meeting with Janet? 
I am pleased and appreciative that things are moving forward at a good clip. 
Here is the initial information on the event. 
If you have any questions or comment, please let me know. 
as well: Tom DeLay / ARMPAC Guest Speaker - David Horowitz Four Seasons Aviara - Dinner & Golf Tournament The event will take place: Wednesday, August 15 Four Seasons Aviara (Northern San Diego, CA) Golf Lunch will start at 11am Tee times at 12:15pm An informal reception afterwards Limited to 40 people Cost is $5k per person Dinner Reception 6 to 6:45pm Dinner 7 to 8:30pm Speakers Tom DeLay and David Horowitz $1,500 per person, $2,500 per couple There are four levels of sponsorship: $100K, $50k, $25k and $15k. 
If you choose to help, the necessary information follows so that you may contact this member directly. 
IOS asks that you please respond within 72 hours of receiving this request. 
*************************************************************************************************** Name: Ted L. 
Chapter: Lone Star-Dallas Phone: 501-401-7601 Fax: 501-401-7628 Email: dsnider@connect.com Other: * Indicated preferred method of contact. 
2) misrepresenting information used to calculate amounts owed under the contract 3) appears to have instigated an FBI investigation of our company regarding a pending civil and regulatory dispute. 
We need an attorney with the courage, confidence, and track record to successfully pursue our claim against a powerful adversary. 
Message-ID: <19542708.1075852654573.JavaMail.evans@thyme> Date: Wed, 20 Jun 2001 12:02:00 -0700 (PDT) From: kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net To: kean.steve@enron.com, jeff.skilling@enron.com Subject: Public Policy Contacts for California Mime-Version: 1.0 Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit Jeff and Steve As you requested, I have prepared a list of my preferred public policy contacts for California. 
I have worked in some capacity with each of these people and most I know quite well. 
HOWDY, WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON AMIGO. 
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK. 
WHO'S GETTING MARRIED? 
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her. 
Again, I do not have all of the information for July and August, so I cannot give you any numbers. 
I need to forecast the money today, so please let me know what you would like to do. 
Megan Subject: RE: City of Pasadena Thanks you so much for working on these as fast as you have - there was a priority in getting them out. 
All I know is what fixed priced baseload deals we have. 
I hope Patti can help you soon. 
Subject: RE: City of Pasadena If I can get all of the information today, I can tell you this afternoon. 
I have sent Patti a list. 
So, if I know today, I can pay on Friday. 
I'm not sure what the feature in question is, but if it's something which lets users specify the value to be sent out as the MIME Content-Type: charset, I think it's a bad idea, and should be removed or significantly altered. 
I find that the best way to think about charset is that it is *neither*. 
(You'll notice that I reinforce this distinction in my own head and in this message by using the terms "character set" and "charset" noninterchangeably.) The charset situation is much like the canonical CRLF situation: the fact that the canonical representation is identical to some but not all of the available local representations guarantees misunderstandings. 
However, just letting users specify non-default, non-7-bit-US-ASCII, (non-MIME) charsets is an open invitation to misunderstanding and noninteroperability. 
I've copied this message to the IETF character sets mailing list (ietf-charsets@innosoft.com, subscription requests to ietf-charsets-request@innosoft.com); any followup traffic should be sent there, and *not* to the ietf-822 list. 
to pine-info@cac.washington.edu: despite my e-mail address, I'm actually in Seattle, near UW. 
docno="lists-003-2121270" received="Fri May 14 20:51:36 1993 EST" sent="Fri, 14 May 1993 20:47:02 -0700 (PDT)" name="Mark Crispin" email="mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM" subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" id="MS-C.737437622.2035015474.mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM" inreplyto="9305142129.AA22544@adam.MIT.EDU" To: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu Cc: TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu, pine-info@cac.washington.edu, Steve - Thanks for your comments. 
In defense of the other Pine team members, the sin is one of omission rather than of comission; they wanted to do something about character sets and didn't want to wire in a table of legal values (since it might change). 
More work would definitely be needed in this area, but you'll appreciate that there are other, higher priorities just now... 
For example if you set Pine to use ISO-8859-1 and send an all ASCII message it will tag it US-ASCII (instead of ISO-8859-1). 
Thought that was what required for minimal MIME compliance. 
In defense of the other Pine team members, > the sin is one of omission rather than of comission; they wanted to do > something about character sets and didn't want to wire in a table of legal > values (since it might change). 
More work would definitely be needed in thi s > area, but you'll appreciate that there are other, higher priorities just > now... 
So, perhaps Pine could have US-ASCII, ISO-2022-JP, and the various ISO-8859-x sets wired in as an initial list, and the system file specify additional valid sets? 
What do you think? 
We can probably adjust the comment in the .pinerc for now. 
It just hasn't been done because limited resources. 
> What do you think? 
>This is almost certainly a bad idea, ... 
Specifically, I feel (quite strongly) that the user should be able to specify any old charset and have display at least attempted at the other end. 
No. 
This is because there are such things as gateways which translate the SMTP octet-stream into anything. 
For the former, use Base64 encoding when needed. 
I don't think this is making sense and I can't find the words. 
(memory is cheap) On VM/CMS, plain text is EBCDIC (now CodePage 1047) and records are handled by the filesystem out-of-band of the data, so NL (and LF and CR) aren't sacred characters. 
"mail is plain-text, not ASCII". 
Right! 
> (You'll notice that I reinforce this distinction in my >own head and in this message by using the terms "character set" >and "charset" noninterchangeably.) Thanks. 
And this thinking, carried into MIME (thus this should be kicked BACK TO the IETF-822 list, but I refrain), shows up in the use of CHARSET=ISO-8859-1 rather than CHARACTER_SET=Latin-1. 
(and yes, sad but true, any SMTPs will strip the high bit) >To be sure, automated selection of and translation to a registered >MIME charset is a non-trivial task, ... 
Which is why I want routers, gateways, and all MTAs (mail transfer agents) to stay out of it. 
Just leave it alone and let it default at the receiving end. 
And let me reiterate that I'm not mad at the Pine developers (nor the MIME developers; not mad at anyone, just trying to push a point that I think is important and has been missed). 
Thanks for making up and using those labels! 
But, could you please discuss on pine specific features in pine ML only? 
>On UNIX, plain text is ASCII (now ISO-8859-1) with lines delimited by >NL (actually LF). 
>That ain't ASCII, though we could be the high-order 8 bits for much >of plain text processing, and that's fine by me. 
Please, gentlemen.....read the RFC. 
The omission of a character set label from text/plain MEANS THAT THE CHARACTER SET IS US ASCII. 
This was deliberate design, designed to promote interoperability. 
docno="lists-003-2152883" received="Wed May 19 07:16:36 1993 EST" sent="Wed, 19 May 1993 10:11:53 -0400 (EDT)" name="Dan Schlitt" email="dan@ees1a0.engr.ccny.cuny.edu" subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" id="Pine.3.05.9305191050.G5139-a100000@ees1a0.engr.ccny.cuny.edu" inreplyto="CHARSET considerations" To: Harald Tveit Alvestrand <harald.t.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no> Cc: scs <scs@adam.mit.edu>, pine-info <pine-info@cac.washington.edu>, Thank you Harald. 
And if it violates the RFC it isn't MIME and shouldn't pretend to be. 
PLEASE. 
docno="lists-003-2171003" received="Thu May 20 12:57:41 1993 EST" sent="Thu, 20 May 1993 21:56:14 +0200" name="Keld J|rn Simonsen" email="keld@dkuug.dk" subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" id="199305201956.AA28105@dkuug.dk" inreplyto="lgl@nwnet.net" To: Laurence Lundblade <lgl@nwnet.net>, Cc: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu, TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu, Laurence Lundblade writes: > Yes, I think that's exactly right. 
In the long term the .pinerc needs a lot of good > error checking. 
All of the RFC 1345 character sets are registered for MIME use. 
docno="lists-003-2173878" received="Mon Jun 21 10:40:25 1993 EST" sent="Wed, 16 Jun 1993 15:13:52 +0200" name="Borka Jerman-Blazic" email="jerman-blazic@ijs.si" subject="IETF BOF" id="1149*/S=jerman-blazic/O=ijs/PRMD=ac/ADMD=mail/C=si/@MHS" inreplyto="" To: WG-CHAR <WG-CHAR@rare.nl> The timing for the BOF will be announced soon. 
Regards, Borka ================== Erik and IESG members, I believe that the revised charter defines most of the issues and defines them well. 
However, our criteria for this BOF should be that it helps illuminate and define the problem and advances the understanding needed to define WGs, and I think it is more likely to do that than anything else we are likely to come up with. 
We are in the process of building global directory systems and other information services on the global Internet. 
This means that the Directory must be able to handle national characters not found in the US-ASCII repetoire. 
This is especially a problem as information services are provided for clients on various difference hardware architectures. 
(See RFC1345 for further information on these character sets.) If we consider the other scripts used in Europe and the other encodings the number of different charater set codes rise to as many as 40. 
Changing the character sets in this world is not an option, as current systems run applications which can support only the character sets used by that system. 
(2) Should a general-purpose SW tool be designed that will support both UCS and regional character sets? 
an API) without specifying the actual underlying implementation? 
Can we discuss the missing agreement/specifiactions required in the communication protocols such as: (5.1) The order of octets in the interchange of data is left to be specified by the sender and the recipient in UCS. 
Can we define a mechanism to identify the serialized byte order of a data stream? 
Do these schemes have any merit? 
(5.4) Do we need to differentiate or specify how tagged data (i.e the field typ e in a data base)and how "serialized byte order" data are treated in a communication protocol or will some common specification for the tag and the type be sufficient? 
If possible a clear set of issues could be identified then WG(s) will be defined. 
Thanks for getting this together. 
docno="lists-003-2183485" received="Tue Jun 22 18:50:42 1993 EST" sent="Wed, 23 Jun 1993 10:49:08 +0900" name="Eiiti Wada" email="wada@u-tokyo.ac.jp" subject="Re: Who knows about 10646 escape sequences?" id="9306230149.AA28724@sino.syslab.iias.flab.fujitsu.co.jp" inreplyto="Who knows about 10646 escape sequences?" To: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM Harald Tveit Alvestrand <harald.t.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no>: >Who knows if ISO 10646 has been assigned numbers and escape sequences? 
So, ask Mr. 
docno="lists-003-2205935" received="Fri Jul 9 09:47:54 1993 EST" sent="Fri, 09 Jul 1993 18:25:04 +0200" name="Andr'e PIRARD" email="PIRARD@vm1.ulg.ac.be" subject="Thoughts about characters transmission" id="01H0C1LQB78Y8WWAUK@INNOSOFT.COM" inreplyto="Tue, 6 Jul 93 20:10 GMT" To: "Robert G. 
I have learned with much interest that people envision solutions for international characters data exchange with a wider point of view than usually heard in the networking sphere. 
I thought I could contribute with a small text explaining the way I have finally come to think of the problem. 
The text may sound theoretical at first. 
The ideas are based on experience. 
I participated to the design of Kermit multinational 8-bit characters support and the TCP/IP network I work for is well on the way towards the the same theory that every character on the communication line is ISO 8859-1. 
Every piece working towards a common well defined goal finally pays more when all parts start to clutch than wandering for immediate interest. 
Character data caused little problem because ASCII was assumed, full stop. 
It was tacit computer culture. 
Any computer has to exchange more than ASCII. 
With much respect for their work, this is not (no longer) the way to do it. 
Let us count the different character codes (IBM have their share) and protocols, the bill is amazing! 
(Meaning that common tools be available to translate present local code). 
What computer Si has to do to abide by the external representation is the sole matter of computer Si: to appear to others as if it were using it internally. 
No tagging of the data nor any need to know any character code other than one's own and the interchange code. 
This is the extended "ASCII culture" of some future, no doubt. 
It is a fact that the choice of a character code has long lasting effects, because of the building software base. 
The sooner the better. 
More theoretically said this time, this local-code to exchange-code translation works much a la OSI layer (or "a` la", if you don't mind :-) Data is encoded towards a lower layer, exchanged, and decoded back to same level, but possibly to a different local code. 
But that's not sure, like for XDR which can be used from many levels to convert CPU data to line format. 
What seems clear in my mind is that the translation is not in several final protocols, but a protocol by itself -- like XDR -- that other protocols refer to. 
It is a pity to see each protocol tackle the problem its own way. 
Think of the line separator problem of NFS for the basic case of text files. 
One cannot increase complication eternally. 
The important thing is that the new layer be known and used. 
Will ISO 10646 be used by OSI 6? 
I have picked addresses from a BOF announcement and sent to mailing lists I am not on. 
Andr'e PIRARD SEGI, Univ. 
pirard@vm1.ulg.ac.be aka PIRARD@BLIULG11.BITNET +32 (41) 564932 What is an FAQ is a frequently asked question. 
The reason for this is that the STLP strawman document is not an official IETF document. 
However, since the consensus of the emails is to discuss the STLP strawman document on ietf-tls, then Microsoft does not object. 
Tom Stephens >---------- >From: Eric Murray[SMTP:ericm@lne.com] >Sent: Friday, April 19, 1996 3:18 PM >To: Tom Stephens >Cc: ietf-tls@w3.org >Subject: Re: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development >Tom Stephens writes: >> >> David made some excellent points regarding STLP. 
If you are not >> a member of that alias, I would strongly encourage you to join and >> >participate in the discussion. 
>Perhaps I don't understand IETF procedure, but I am puzzled as to why >there is now a second mailing list. 
>In fact, it's not getting enough traffic... 
>Where is it? 
Win Treese, > Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any > way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group. 
This is not a good thing. 
Microsoft and Netscape are working with the IETF to create one IETF standard which both companies can support. 
Win Treese, >> Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any >> way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group. 
>This is not a good thing. 
The reason for this is that the STLP >strawman document is not an official IETF document. 
>However, since the consensus of the emails is to discuss the STLP >strawman document on ietf-tls, then Microsoft does not object. 
>> >Tom Stephens >--------------------------------- Tom, could you or Win Treese tell us exactly what is going on? 
If Microsoft released a unilateral draft, to whom did you release it? 
Most of all, if the working group is still working on an "actual spec," what purpose is served by this unilateral STLP document? 
The rest of the industry needs to have confidence in this process. 
At that meeting, Microsoft precented our STLP strawman document. 
Our goal was to deal with the differences Microsoft and Netscape quickly so that the normal IETF process would move forward without any detractions from either Microsoft or Netscape. 
>On Friday 4/19, at 8:24 PM, Tom Stephens wrote: >>Tls-draft was created specifically as a forum for the discussion of the >>Microsoft STLP strawman document. 
Win Treese, >>Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any >>way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group. 
To >>facilitate the discussion, you can find the STLP strawman document at: >> >>http://pct.microsoft.com/stlp. 
I was >there >in LA on March 6 evening meeting, and this (recent unilateral release >by >Microsoft of a document of unknown status to an unknown enitity) does >not >feel like the intentions I heard expressed at that time. 
>These (apparently sub rosa) machinations do not inspire confidence in >the >integrity of the original commitments (surprising as they were) to work >out >a unified protocol. 
docno="lists-034-10082707" name="Tom Stephens" email="tomste@microsoft.com" sent="Mon, 22 Apr 1996 12:10:54 -0700" subject="RE: Status (if any) of STLP?" To: "'sanders_james@tandem.com'" <sanders_james@tandem.com> Cc: "'ietf-tls@w3.org'" <ietf-tls@w3.org>, "'tls-draft@w3.org'"<tls-draft@w3.org> Jim, As you pointed out, there has been some confusion over this issue. 
That was never our intention. 
Tom >---------- >From: sanders_james@tandem.com[SMTP:sanders_james@tandem.com] >Sent: Monday, April 22, 1996 10:39 AM >To: Tom Stephens >Cc: ietf-tls@w3.org; tls-draft@w3.org >Subject: RE: Status (if any) of STLP? 
At that meeting, Microsoft precented our STLP >>strawman document. 
Our goal was to deal with the >>differences Microsoft and Netscape quickly so that the normal IETF >>process would move forward without any detractions from either Microsoft >>or Netscape. 
This was especialy true in light of the press >reports of >"Draft submitted to IETF." I believe that what you are saying is that >no draft >was "submitted," but rather "made available for review," albeit with >rather late >instructions as to location and ownership. 
>Thanks again for your prompt response. 
V." email="raman@mv.us.adobe.com " sent="Mon, 18 Mar 1996 09:23:53 -0800" subject="A short comment:" To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org Cc: raman@mv.us.adobe.com I'll mail this out while it's fresh in my head: The document http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/MarkUp/Math/Group/Wolfram/general.html contains the following statement which I completely disagree with (at least as stated here). 
(Rationale: since almost all mathematics is conventionally expressed in 2-dimensional graphical form, most notations in that medium have no standard version in other media.) Reason I disagree: Renderings in speech need to convey more than a "2D picture" of the expression. 
Given that the contentious statement appears in our "rationale" document, I thought it sufficiently importatn to have clarified. 
docno="lists-046-11489622" name="Dave Raggett" email="dsr@w3.org" sent="Fri, 22 Mar 1996 18:19:06 -0500" subject="Minutes for 18th March" To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org Meeting Notes of Math-ERB Teleconference: Thursday 18th March '96 Present: Bruce Smith, Wolfram Neil Soiffer, Wolfram T.V. 
The new time will be every Monday at 1300 EST until further notice. 
Ralph Youngen, Associate Director, Electronic Product Development for AMS has accepted the invitation to join the group, along with a couple of his colleagues. 
We discussed whether it was necessary to use SGML for the math notation. 
This can be included in HTML documents and handled correctly by SGML processing applications via the NOTATION mechanism. 
Niel said this wasn't as simple as at first it might appear. 
It is also unclear as to when macro processing is applied. 
It should be practical for parsers to deal with missing arguments sensibly. 
Raman voiced a concern on Bruce's comment on 2D pictures. 
Raman promised to propose some new wording. 
We ended by discussing some of the parsing issues for mismatched brackets and number literals. 
Authors should be able to control the settings for this and for literals. 
See: current thoughts. 
docno="lists-046-11493928" name="Nico Poppelier" email="nico@valacar.elsevier.nl" sent="Thu, 4 Apr 1996 09:08:31 +0200 (MET DST)" inreplyto="199604032337.PAA00531@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com" subject="Re: Agenda for Monday April 1st" To: raman@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com (Raman T. 
Here are some comments. 
2. 
Between =-=-=-= lines I'll include a piece I wrote about that in relation to the Elsevier Science DTD's. 
Earlier summary of the problem ------------------------------ A generic mechanism for counters, including some rules for presentation of counters, is as follows. 
- All top-level counters start at the value 0 (zero) at the beginning of the document. 
This label is e.g. 
- The values of the |id| attributes are unique within the document instance. 
- If the |id| attribute is missing, the counter is not incremented, and the element is not numbered. 
(Or are there also cases where tables and figures are not numbered?) There are (at least) the following exceptions to the algorithm described above: 1. 
Normal equation numbering (1, 2, 3, ...) is interrupted by an equation number that is `derived from' an earlier one. 
3. 
Example: a numbered list with items 1, 2, 3, is followed by a paragraph of text (the || is on the same level as the |<l>|), and then the list continues 4, 5, 6. 
A similar example can be found in equation sub-numbering: equations (4a) and (4b) are followed by a paragraph of text, followed by equations (4c) and (4d). 
Hidden sub-figures ------------------ When a figure (as far as we know, hidden sub-components occur only with figures.) that exists as one physical entity consists of logical sub-entities, the only solution lies in adding this information, which lies *outside* the document, to the document. 
This enables generation of the labels of the sub-figures. 
Second an example of hidden sub-figures: <fig id=fig4> <figlnk file="fig4"> </fig> the picture in |fig4| contains two labels, `a' and `b', that identify sub-figures. 
If we add an attribute to the start tag we can achieve this: |<fig id=fig4 comp="a b"^gt;|. 
Unfortunately, the attribute |comp="a b"| also suggests a presentation. 
Derived equation numbers ------------------------ We illustrate this case with an example. 
In that case we have the following (id, label) pairs for the first three equations: (eq1, 1) (eq2, 2) (eq3, 3) The next equation should have an (id, label) pair like this: (eq$1, label(eq1)') where |eq$1| is the unique |id| assigned to equation~(1'), and |label(eq1)| stands for the label of the equation with id=eq1. 
Interrupted sequences --------------------- This case occurs with list items within a numbered list, or with numbered sub-equations. 
This could be achieved if we also numbered the parent element \verb|<l^gt;|.) Suppose we have <l> <li id="liA">a footnote is ... 
<li id="liD">a table is ... 
We agreed earlier that one of the guiding principles is to follow the author unless there are errors in the manuscript. 
"HTML-Math is intended to allow ... 
4. 
Elsevier Science is in discussion with several societies about the possibility of completing a font set that covers all this, and perhaps more, and make it freely available. 
5. 
6. 
I've been asked by people on the LaTeX3 development team to express a strong preference for the former, and a strong dislike for \over! 
I'll try to monitor the corner designated to our group on www.w3.org, although the password Dave gave me doesn't work! 
But there will be Mondays on which I am not at home from 7 pm to midnight (that's 12 noon to 5 pm EST, since we're in daylight saving time as of last weekend). 
Nico A.F.M. 
Molenwerf 1, 1014 AG Amsterdam Phone: +31-20-4853482. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------ The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
docno="lists-046-11506817" name="Ron Whitney" email="RFW@math.ams.org" sent="Thu, 11 Apr 1996 08:46:25 -0400 (EDT)" * Mail-System-Version: subject="small questions regarding integrals" To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org In composing a longer piece about concerns here, I have a couple of smallish, focused questions. 
of ... 
1. 
Is there a specific reason we don't want to use the TeX-like notation: \int_{...}^{...} ... 
docno="lists-046-12119260" name="T. 
Raman" email="raman@adobe.com" sent="Tue, 4 Jun 1996 08:19:04 -0700" inreplyto="199606040606.AA03032@drizzle.wri.com" id="199606041519.IAA15437@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com" * X-Fax: 1(415) 962-6063 * X-Phone: 1 (415) 962-3945 subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:" To: Neil Soiffer <soiffer@wri.com> Cc: raman@mv.us.adobe.com, w3c-math-erb@w3.org Hi Neill, I did not see anything wrong in Bruce's description --all I was trying to do was to fill in the gaps in the description as I perceived -- -- Best Regards, --raman Adobe Systems Tel: 1 (415) 962 3945 (B-1 115) Advanced Technology Group Fax: 1 (415) 962 6063 (E 1-160) 1585 Charleston Road Email: raman@adobe.com Mountain View, CA 94039 -7900 raman@cs.cornell.edu http://www-atg/People/Raman.html (Internal To Adobe) http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/raman.html (Cornell) Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are my own and in no way should be taken as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc. 
For instance if one uses an SGML named character entity how does the tokenizer know whether the character is allowed as part of an identifier? 
o If it is an operator, its types (prefix/infix/postfix) and the associated left and right precedences. 
Action: Bruce to add a detailed schema for the character dictionary. 
Bruce said he wanted to avoid potential naming conflicts with other groups wishing to define new HTML tags. 
Bruce will work on this. 
Neil explained that this makes it much easier to write the line breaking algorithm. 
In the short term, this will remain a problem. 
We discussed what HTML tags might be appropriate within HTML-math. 
A the minimum we probably need: o plain text o simple kinds of emphasis (bold/italic) o control over font size o hypertext links o line numbering We could further allow this text to include math elements so that we get math including text including math etc. 
The current plug-in api's are inadequate. 
The control panel for the html-math plug-in would allow the user to set the font size to be used in these contexts. 
One idea is to allow the author to name a subexpression and then to use that name in place of further occurrences of that subexpression. 
The scope for such definitions shouldn't be resticted to a single math element. 
Bruce talked through the case where names for subexpressions are generated automatically at browse-time. 
In a previous discussion Raman pointed out that it would be helpful if the user is allowed to set the name of subexpressions as this makes it easier to remember (important for speech-base browsers). 
superscripts, accents etc needs to happen *before* the operator >precedence parsing step. 
Mathematica's parsing, which works in a manner similar to what Bruce describes, has no problem handling complex embellishments as in your example. 
Do you have a (simple) example in mind where it fails? 
V. 
In AsTeR, you could name a cross-referencable object such as an equation with meaningful names e.g. 
I refered to this in AsTeR as "variable substitution". 
"lower constraint 1" and denominator 3" etc. 
However, even without the intelligence to recognize two semantically equivalent instances of a subexpression, "variable substitution" or "folding" as Dave refers to it in his minutes is *really* useful for speech and I suspect it would be very useful for small visual displays. 
Here are the relevant sections from the thesis: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/current/phd-thesis/html/node90.html #SECTION00467000000000000000 and http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/current/phd-thesis/html/node83.html #SECTION00460000000000000000 -- Best Regards, --raman Adobe Systems Tel: 1 (415) 962 3945 (B-1 115) Advanced Technology Group Fax: 1 (415) 962 6063 (E 1-160) 1585 Charleston Road Email: raman@adobe.com Mountain View, CA 94039 -7900 raman@cs.cornell.edu http://www-atg/People/Raman.html (Internal To Adobe) http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/raman.html (Cornell) Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are my own and in no way should be taken as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc. 
I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or to change their relative size, or position. 
Am I missing something? 
Some more comments: I agree with Ron Whitney, and should have said so before, that the effort that has gone into this proposal is substantial, and this is really concrete stuff we can "chew on". 
While reading the discussion between Bruce Smith and Ron Whitney, I have come to the conclusion that the plug-in solution will not work, because we need the possibility of anchor's within math, and math in text in math. 
at the DLI Math meeting in Illinois. 
Nico A.F.M. 
Molenwerf 1, 1014 AG Amsterdam Phone: +31-20-4853482. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------ The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
docno="lists-046-12146425" name="Ron Whitney" email="RFW@math.ams.org" sent="Wed, 05 Jun 1996 10:05:48 -0400 (EDT)" inreplyto="199606050741.JAA03224@thorin.elsevier.nl" * Mail-System-Version: id="833983548.437563.RFW@MATH.AMS.ORG" subject="Re: more comments on HTML-Math proposal" To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org Nico commented recently: > I also had the feeling for some time, and the same feeling exists in > the SGML community, that the developments of HTML-Math and of HTML > in general were suffering from a NIH syndrome. 
My own perceptions of this committee's work to date follow. 
Insofar as the work of the ISO 12083 Math Committee stopped short of recommending ways to handle "semantic" aspects of math markup, recognizing that the issues were many and difficult, the work of this committee in that regard feels to me a welcome addition to the overall discussion of those sorts of problems. 
This effort, in some sense competing with Roy Pike's, seems very healthy to me. 
The Wolfram proposal certainly acknowledges the need to accommodate SGML entities and supports and SGML style of markup. 
I was hoping, and still do, that formal support such as this would give a direct means of filtering ISO 12083 math into HTML-math. 
And then there may be the feeling that WRI is pushing a standard of its own. 
This is a quiet statement, not a defensive one. 
I asked the question because I wanted to know how feasible the mechanisms are that Bruce describes. 
I said "he consented", but I should have said "he consented grudgingly and certainly not wholeheartedly". 
Nico A.F.M. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------ The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
docno="lists-046-12155427" name="Dave Raggett" email="dsr@w3.org" sent="Wed, 05 Jun 1996 15:50:28 -0400" id="199606051950.AA173014228@w3.org" subject="Re: more comments on HTML-Math proposal" To: n.poppelier@elsevier.nl Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org<199606050741.JAA03224@thorin.elsevier.nl> > While reading the discussion between Bruce Smith and Ron Whitney, I > have come to the conclusion that the plug-in solution will not > work, because we need the possibility of anchor's within math, > and math in text in math. 
at the DLI > Math meeting in Illinois. 
You can however make anchors within plugins work. 
This is enough to allow anchor's within math, and math in text in math, with the burden placed on the plugin. 
>I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as >operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or >to change their relative size, or position. 
Am I missing something? 
The arguments are technical, so people who don't care can stop reading. 
The most reasonable "error correction" would be to have the '_' embellishe '+'. 
When the parser sees the '+', it sees that it must be a prefix operator, and so will shift the '2' on. 
Since the details of why a prefix embellishing operator sometimes "works" right and sometimes doesn't are probably beyond most authors, I think we should avoid them. 
docno="lists-046-12162937" name="Dave Raggett" email="dsr@w3.org" sent="Thu, 06 Jun 1996 11:10:10 -0400" id="199606061510.AA181383810@w3.org" subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:" To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org<199606060206.AA06946@drizzle.wri.com> Neil, >>I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as >>operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or >>to change their relative size, or position. 
> Since the details of why a prefix embellishing operator sometimes "works" > right and sometimes doesn't are probably beyond most authors, I think we > should avoid them. 
I am unconvinced by your examples. 
> However, consider the following: > &bold + 2 > with '&bold' being a high-precedence prefix operator. 
You have already asserted that people are comfortable with dictionary definitions for the roles of symbols as prefix, infix or postfix operators (including their precedences). 
Can you give me examples that would be hard to explain to a user? 
Critics have now gone so far as to call for the revocation of the award. 
Dear David Hardy, It is fascinating to watch the organized character assassination of Michael Moore that has been going on in the United States since the release of his last documentary. 
Moore's are perceived as disturbing and have to be silenced, partially through well funded public relations campaigns, partially through conservative "grass-roots" propaganda. 
All in all, it is an accurate portrayal of America's gun and violence culture. 
On your webpage, you state that "Moore's resolution is questionable. 
There is a huge difference, for example, between playing a game like "Quake" and listening to a radio broadcast that tells you that your family will be killed unless you take action to kill others now. 
Similarly, the main motivation for the crusades (beyond the promise of wealth) was that Christians were supposedly being slaughtered and had to be saved. 
Interactive fiction like video games, on the other hand, presents violence in a narrative context, which may very well desensitize participants to said violence, but no causative link has ever been proven. 
This is consistent with the kind of media-incited violence described above, and in no relationship whatsoever to the theory of video game or music incited violence. 
Moore's second hypothesis is that America's foreign policy may contribute to the belief that violence is an appropriate means to solve conflicts, a hypothesis which is shared by many sociologists and psychologists. 
In a weaker sense, the same message is projected to American children, who grow up being told that it is not acceptable to be violent to one another, but who simultaneously have to endure corporal punishment and media messages about how "the enemies of freedom" are punished. 
Americans were gloating over this demented corpse show: "They squealed like little piggies too, so you'll have to make do with 'oink, oink, squeeeeeeeallll' for their last words. 
Still think fucking with the U.S. 
Inaccuracies Your webpage list a number of alleged inaccuracies in Moore's movies. 
It is no more so than any other successful documentary of the last decades. 
In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, linked from your site, an employee claims that the gun would have been "normally" picked up at another dealer. 
This sounds more like a later correction for public relations purposes, but of course nobody questions the bank claims when they can be used against Moore. 
According to the same WSJ interview, "Typically, you're looking at a week to 10 days waiting period." This is plausible -- but entirely irrelevant for the movie, which already makes it quite clear that a background check is being performed. 
There is nothing inaccurate whatsoever about the bank scene. 
The silly criticisms of the scene obscure the real obscenity of the situation: a bank handing out guns to its customers, higlighting the utter laxness of how Americans deal with deadly weapons and a love of firearms that borders on the religious. 
This is perhaps the criticism repeated the most often, and it also the most inaccurate. 
The dialogue goes as follows: Moore: "So you don't think our kids say to themselves, gee, dad goes off to the factory every day - he builds missiles. 
What's the difference between that mass destruction and the mass destruction over at Columbine High School?" McCollum (PR person): "I guess I don't see that specific connection because the missiles that you're talking about were built and designed to defend us from somebody else who would be aggressors against us." First, note the word "our" in Moore's question. 
McCollum understands it this way -- otherwise he would protest against the plant being mischaracterized. 
Even Lockheed did not believe the public to be that gullible. 
As Moore correctly points out, it is bizarre for a society to openly embrace the production of destructive weapons, but on the other hand see no connection of this to everyday violence -- children learn by imitating adults. 
It is perhaps one of his most famous quotes, shown on national TV even here in Germany. 
Nowhere does Moore say or imply that these words were uttered at the rally in Denver, and in fact, their reptition later in the movie at another occasion (oddly claimed by critics to be again "misattributed") is simply a reminder of this. 
The "visual of a billboard and a narration" is viewed by you as evidence that Moore is trying to somehow tie the two events together, when in reality, it is quite obvious that he does it to separate the introduction of Heston from his speech in Denver. 
This is a common technique, but because conservative readers are not familiar with the basics of filmmaking, they believe critics who claim that he is "distorting" the interview. 
The NRA was fully aware of the scandal it would cause through its rally and decided to push on because they believed to have enough media support to successfully do so. 
You claim that there was "no way to change location, since you have to give advance notice of that to the members, and there were upwards of 4,000,000 members." 10 days are more than enough to give advance warning of a change in location or date, had the NRA really wanted to. 
That does not change the fact that they did just that. 
This is what good documentary filmmaking is about. 
Heston maganimously holds up a hand to read the mayor's letter (only to explain in detail why he chose to ignore the request -- not mentioning at all the reasons you have given!). 
To say that they could not have done otherwise is a bold lie by Moore's critics. 
Again, standard filmmaking techniques are interpreted as smooth distortion: "Moore works by depriving you of context and guiding your mind to fill the vacuum -- with completely false ideas. 
Did anyone but Moore's critics view it as anything else? 
Concerning the Georgetown Hoya interview where Heston was asked about Rolland, you write: "There is no indication that [Heston] recognized Kayla Rolland's case." This is naive to the extreme -- Heston would not be president of the NRA if he was not kept up to date on the most prominent cases of gun violence. 
Regarding the NRA website excerpt about the case and the highlighting of the phrase "48 hours after Kayla Rolland is pronounced dead": This is one valid criticism, but far from the deliberate distortion you make it out to be; rather, it is an example for how the facts can sometimes be easy to miss with Moore's fast pace editing. 
Unfortunately, because the zooming is rather fast, it is easy to miss the rest of the sentence, so as you correctly note, some viewers got an incorrect impression. 
However, the claim of deliberate distortion is ludicrous for several reasons: a) Moore clearly states that "before he came to Flint", Heston gave an interview. 
If Moore wanted to deceive his viewers, why would he say this, and show the month the interview was published? 
I reviewed the sequence several times and it is perfectly possible to see this text without pausing. 
The camera lingers on Bush/Cheney posters, and the protestor is quoted as saying that "we wanted to let the NRA know that we haven't forgotten about Kayla Rolland". 
Opinions may vary on how tasteless it was for Heston to hold a pro gun rally on the location of the nation's youngest school shooting months after the fact, but this sequence of "Bowling" is without doubt the most unfair to Heston. 
The somewhat inept editing of the NRA press release has led some viewers to wrong conclusions, which is unfortunate, but Moore's critics have no interest in viewing the matter fairly. 
In any case, at no point does Moore make a false statement, in contradiction to claims by critics that his documentary is "full of lies". 
You accuse Moore so often of changing the chronology, yet you have no problems changing it yourself. 
After the Flint rally comes a brief TV interview with Heston, where he is asked about Kayla Rolland (again, clear evidence that the local media in Flint raised questions about the NRA's presence), then an inteview with country prosecutor Arthur Busch, entirely ignored by critics of the film, who also mentions Heston's presence as notable, and refers to the immediate reactions of "people from all over America", gun owners/groups who, according to him, reacted aggressively to warnings of having guns accessible to children, much like spanking advocates react aggressively when anti-spankers point to a case of a child being killed or severely injured by a beating. 
This is all not mentioned by critics of Moore's movie, who claim to be objective. 
From this, you construct an obscure conspiracy of "re-enactment": "For all we can tell, Moore could have shouted 'Hey!' to make Heston turn around and then remained silent as Heston left." Even if your "re-enactment" theory is true (and I see no evidence that you have actually tried to ask the people involved in the filmmaking for their opinion), this itself is not unethical, and you have no evidence whatsoever that Moore has done anything unethical here, just like you have no evidence that Moore has unethically removed parts of the interview. 
6)Animated history of the US. 
But it makes a valid claim which you ignore entirely: That the strategy to promote "gun rights" for white people and to outlaw gun possession by black people was a way to uphold racism without letting an openly terrorist organization like the KKK flourish. 
This is the key message of this part of the animation, which is again being ignored by its critics. 
You write: "Fact: The little boy was the class thug, already suspended from school for stabbing another kid with a pencil, and had fought with Kayla the day before". 
It is the typical right-wing reaction which looks for simple answers that do not contradict the Republican mindset. 
But why do people deal with drugs? 
It is by now well documented that the CIA tolerated crack sales in US cities to fund the operation of South American "contras" It is equally well known that the so-called "war on drugs" begun under the Nixon administration is a failure which has cost hundreds of billions and made America the world leader in prison population (both in relative and absolute numbers). 
Once again, your emphasis on the little boy as a thug confirms Moore's (and Busch's) assertion that people wanted to hang the child from the highest tree instead of looking at the real causes. 
Poverty is frequently portrayed as natural, and the poor in America are seen by conservatives as VCR-owners who are just too lazy to work. 
It is notable that the Wall Street Journal's reaction to this segment of the film was even more dismissive than yours: It called Moore's claim "preposterous". 
8) Taliban and American aid. 
Never mind the fact that authors such as Robert Scheer warned of aiding the Taliban as early as in May 2001. 
Never mind that in a regime that is controlled by warlords, it does not matter who is authorized to distribute the aid -- the ruling regional warlords will seize control of it and use it to their own advantage. 
Never mind that the Taliban continued selling opium in spite of the deal. 
9) Gun homicides. 
That's because they know all too well that Moore is correct: The United States have a far greater homicide rate (both gun- and non-gun) than most other first world countries. 
A good comparison of international homicide rates can be found on the relatively neutral guncite.com website. 
The gun control movement, on the other hand, distracts from the real causes of violence -- poverty, paranoia, the "war on drugs" and antisexuality. 
10) Canada ammunition purchase. 
He asks us to "look at what I, a foreign citizen, was able to do at a local Canadian Wal-Mart." He buys several boxes of ammunition without a question being raised. 
I could buy as much ammunition as I wanted, in Canada. 
Once again, you fail to distinguish between regular film editing and "faking" (a word which "Canadian officials" have never used; for such a distortion, Moore would have been boiled alive by his critics). 
He made no claims whatsoever in the film about the need to show or not show identification. 
11) Heston's allegedly implied racism. 
If anything, it is his own failure that he did not clarify what he meant with "having a more mixed ethnicity". 
Your accusations of inappropriate cutting are once again entirely unsupported -- in fact, it is quite clear from watching that particular scene that there is not a single cut from the point at which Moore asks Heston a second time for the cause of the higher violence in the States, and the point when he mentions the Kayla Rolland incident. 
Conclusion You write: "Bowling for Columbine is dishonest. 
It is not a flawless diamond -- the "48 hours" scene in particular suffers from bad editing, the statistics are suboptimal, and Heston gets a bit more bashing than he deserves. 
Certainly, Moore is one of the most talented filmmakers in the United States today, and his film fully deserved its Oscar. 
It is not only the highest grossing non-music documentary of all time, among the users of the largest Internet film database, IMDB, it is also the highest rated one. 
But perhaps the campaign against Moore is really motivated by another reason. 
It is unlikely, however, that the unfair attacks against him will have much of an impact. 
Yours sincerely, Erik Mller This text is in the public domain. 
Tavrez Indigenous Revitalization Movements of Latin America: The Rediscovery of Language and Identity Humans, in the process of defining themselves, look to immediately recognizable factors in order to differentiate themselves from others. 
Naturally this can be signaled by any number of things - clothing, food, lifestyle choices. 
The command of a language, while not affording guaranteed access to the community which speaks it, is often the key to gaining entry. 
Therefore when considering the indigenous revitalization movements which began in 20th century Latin America, the impact of those indigenous languages on those movements and the nature of the identity of the peoples themselves is key. 
In particular I will examine two divergent yet remarkably parallel cases, that of the Maya in Guatemala and the Nasa and Guambiano peoples of Colombia. 
Initially the Spanish government attempted to instate the encomienda system, in which a conquistador maintained direct control over the indigenous peoples and their land. 
In reality land ownership rights were the exclusive right of the Spanish, resulting in modern-day malappropriation of land ownership in the hands of the descendants of the Spanish colonialists (Warren 1978, 7-8). 
The impoverished plight of the native populations was first recognized by the Marxist movements of the early 20th century. 
This resulted in persecution against the Mayans, who make up about 60% of the overall population. 
In Guatemala over 450 villages were destroyed, 200,000 Mayans were killed, and over 1 million more were displaced. 
Central to these was the question of indigenous identity: largely lost amidst the overwhelming Spanish influence, local leaders sought to rediscover their native roots and redefine what it meant to be a part of indigenous culture. 
The Pan-Mayan movement thus benefits from the lasting influence of the popular left on Guatemalan governmental policies without risking drawing the (often negative) attention of the government (England 2003: 735, Warren 2003: 181). 
This results in part from the ingrained influences of Spanish colonialism: Spanish continues to be associated with modernity and social mobility, whereas Maya is seen as backward and inferior. 
By doing so they hope to inculcate among the Mayan peoples a renewed sense of pride which will in turn reverse the dogma of Spanish superiority. 
Several competing and oftentimes conflicting indigenous rights advocacy groups have developed: the ONIC poses itself as the sole pan-Indian group, yet lacks legitimacy in the eyes of many indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 83, 85). 
It often stands in conflict with the AICO, its Guambiano counterpart (Jackson 2003: 83-84). 
Central is a return to the old land grant system stemming from the repartimentos of the colonial era along with judicial sovereignty. 
They are ruled by the cabildo, local governing boards formed of community leaders (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 51-52). 
The oral nature of jurisprudence directly conflicts with the desire of the Colombian government to codify law, and questions of human rights violations are common as punishments are often corporal in nature (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 57-58). 
Mayans gained formal recognition in 1995 as the majority population in a precursor to the 1996 peace accord; by 1999 its government floated a referendum on an indigenous bill of rights resembling that codified in the Colombian constitution (Warren 2002: 157-158). 
However, it reflects on a greater level both the desire of many Mayans to assimilate, as they still feel that is necessary for social mobility, and a belief among the general population that Mayans do not require a separate bill of rights as they are covered under the general rights already in the constitution (Warren 2002: 159, 172). 
Nonetheless, in 2003 the legislature passed the law of national languages, which while reaffirming Spanish as the official language, recognizes the importance of indigenous languages as part of national identity and encourages their active promotion. 
This question of identity as defined by language manifests differently in Guatemala and Colombia. 
In contrast, Colombian indigenous groups are divided to the extent that linguistic diversity is not only valued, but serves to split the population, both between groups and within groups themselves. 
Language further works to establish identity by encapsulating a worldview markedly removed from that of the dominant Western culture. 
It is necessary to work within the national legal system in order to gain policy reform beyond the local level; however, with widely differing concepts of justice a a balance is difficult to achieve. 
When a punishment - often public and corporal in nature - is carried out, the group feels the effects as a whole. 
(Rappaport 2005) Once punishments are completed, the criminal is seen as rehabilitated, having fulfilled his duty to restore harmonic order, and is welcomed back into the community (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 61, Rappaport 2005: 97). 
The translation of the Colombian constitution sparked the development of neologisms, as the goal of the translators was not to provide a direct translation of the constitution, but to recapture its spirit in a native, rather than Western discourse (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 58-59). 
Translation fulfills another vital role, as it is employed in the rediscovery of the indigenous identity itself. 
The Guambiano history project charts native history as the outward spiraling events which are both cyclic and parallel in nature; Mayan historians translate and document oral histories whose legacy is in danger of being forgotten (Rappaport 2005: 165). 
Difficulties arise, however, as conflicts between the traditional and modern and native languages and Spanish develop. 
The differences between cosmovision in Spanish and indigenous languages are great, leading to the difficulty of governing in Spanish yet embracing indigenous mode of thought. 
Illiteracy and poverty is associated with Maya; thus there is the conflict between the desire to recapture the unique Mayan identity via the language and the need to improve living conditions, which most often occurs under Spanish influence. 
The ONIC of Colombia lacks legitimacy precisely because it is perceived as not Indian enough; it embraces the use of Spanish and Western discourse, leading to distrust among indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 85). 
There develops a duality in native culture; for example, many Nasa children receive instruction in Nasa Yuwe yet converse in Spanish outside the classroom. 
This intersection of language and indigenous identity poses challenges which have yet to be fully addressed. 
In Colombia, legal successes have often come about due to the Colombian government's recognition of the political viability of the rhetoric of indigenous rights; by granting indigenous peoples judicial sovereignty they hope to win the trust of a people who view the government as incapable of protecting them from the ongoing civil strife, and by giving them blocks of land they hope that the indigenous community will be able to keep out drug traffickers and guerrillas where the government itself has not (Jackson 1995: 8). 
Conflicts arise due to internal differences and the ever-persist problem of defining indigenous identity and authenticity in a pluralistic linguistic environment. 
and Joanne Rappaport. 
Warren and Jean E. 
Pp.47-80. 
England, Nora C. 
1995. 
ibid. 
Contested Discourses of Authority in Colombian National Indigenous Politics: The 1996 Summer Takeovers. in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. 
Warren and Jean E. 
Pp.81-122. 
Intercultural Utopias. 
Warren, Kay B. 
The Symbolism of Subordination. 
ibid. 
La Violencia in Guatemala. in The Violence Within. 
Warren, ed. 
25-56. 
ibid. 
Voting Against Indigenous Rights in Guatemala: Lessons from the 1996 Referendum. in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. 
Warren and Jean E. 
Pan-Mayan Activism in Guatemala. in Contemporary Indigenous Movements in Latin America. 
Langer and Elena Munoz, ed. 
Proposal for a Red Harvester Ant Robot: Colony Infiltration and Task Switching Sonia Roberts 11/27/07 Introduction Background Science fiction writers have been anticipating humanoid androids that could pass a Turing Test for years. 
No robot has yet been constructed, however, that could pass undetected within a colony of the red harvester ants species Pogonomyrmex barbatus; nor has a robot managed to pass undetected in a society of insects while combining in its design several different behaviors and the thresholds of stimulation required to switch between them. 
I propose here the theoretical construction and programming of a robot (hereafter referred to as Antie) that will be able to infiltrate a red harvester ant nest, switching between the foraging, patrolling and midden work behaviors. 
The ants forage for more than 30 different varieties of seeds, many of which do not grow in the desert (Gordon, 54), where only a few varieties of small shrubs, small herbaceous flowering plants and short grasses do grow (Gordon, 51). 
Though fights sometimes do break out with other red harvester ants from different nests, intraspecies interactions tend not to be aggressive (Gordon, 11). 
Antie will be equipped to navigate in this environment and will be designed to find seeds in sandy soil. 
Queens and drones will not be considered in this proposal, as their behaviors and design is much more specialized and would be applicable only during the breeding season, which occurs but once per year. 
Little is known about brood care, as this occurs only in the deepest regions of the nest and observation would generally require the destruction of the nest. 
Patrolling and foraging, too, occur for the most part outside of the nest, and have therefore been studied extensively (ex., Schafer, et al, 2006; Gordon, et al, 2002; Gordon, 2002; Gordon, 1987). 
Patrolling may be divided into two distinct sub-behaviors, nest patrolling and trail patrolling. 
This is thought to be accomplished by the deposition of chemical markers from a gland on the abdomen that the patroller drags along the ground on her return route to the nest that the foragers may then follow (Gordon, 33-34; Holldobler et al, 1990, as cited in Webb, 1998). 
Ants engaged in all three behaviors must be able to identify other nestmates and their current tasks (as well as indicate to other ants their own nestmate status and current task), walk, navigate both within and outside of the nest, and of course switch tasks at appropriate times. 
Behaviors will be coded in Interactive C, for which some pseudocode is included. 
Antie be a circular robot, no more than 1cm in diameter (the length of a red harvester ant), with two driving wheels and one rear wheel for stabilization. 
Antie will also feature a skirt of bump sensors, sonar detectors and chemical emitters, including sacs of hydrocarbons extracted from ants of the nest being infiltrated and pheromones for successful patrolling and foraging. 
Antie will likewise recharge at a special station at night just inside the nest entrance. 
A rudimentary blueprint of Antie is attached. 
The locations of the rest of these sensors will depend on their function. 
Harvester ants do not exit the nest when the outside temperature is above 52 degrees Celsius (Gordon, 9), and the ability to use a temperature gradient will enable in-nest navigation. 
The sonar will constantly be detecting nearby objects and initiate an escape maneuver when their inputs pass a certain threshold of stimulation, and the bump sensors will, when depressed, also initiate the escape function. 
The polarization compass will consist of two polarized light sensors placed at 45 and -45 degrees from the center front of Antie, respectively, that will orient Antie towards a desired polarization pattern. 
This should be sufficient to return Antie to the nest, given the accuracy achieved by Lambrinos, et al and the relatively short periods of time that harvester ants spend outside the nest before returning. 
2. 
Ants themselves rely primarily on chemical information taken in through their antennae, and to mimic this, Antie will have chemical sensing and emitting stalks with which to both interact with other ants (who may be surprised to find an ant without antennae) and take in chemical information. 
Anties stalks would also have receptors for the hydrocarbons themselves, which research shows indicate to the ants whether another ant is their nestmate (Arnold, et al, 1996, as cited in Gordon & Mehdiabadi, 1999), receptors to detect food, and receptors for three types of pheromones: those released by successful foragers returning with food, those released by successful patrollers returning to the nest, and those marking piles of trash as midden. 
Returning successful patrollers have an even greater effect on foraging activity: foragers will not leave the nest unless a patroller returns (Gordon, 2002), and the rate of foraging in a colony can be controlled by rolling glass beads coated with cuticular hydrocarbons extracted from patrollers into the nest (Gordon & Greene, 2003; Greene & Gordon, 2007). 
For the purposes of this proposal, I will assume that the nest maintenance and food processing ants have marked the midden with a particular pheromone. 
This technique, described by Ishida, et al (2001), has been shown to improve the chemical plume-tracking abilities of robots. 
Finally, Antie will have tactile sensors on its grippers to analyze the pressure being exerted on a gripped object. 
These will correspond to the muscles of the ants mandibles, which provide sensorimotor feedback to the ant when grasping objects. 
Fig 3. 
Sensor Relation to Ant Placement on Antie Function Sonar detectors Eyes; object perception Skirt Prevent object collisions! 
There will be two individually operated motors to drive the two side wheels in lieu of legs. 
A third motor will lift and lower the grippers, allowing Antie to raise and lower gripped items as an ant would by raising and lowering its head. 
These will be located in different places: the sprayer for the successful patroller pheromone will be located on the rear at the base of Antie, corresponding to the glands that researchers believe the ants drag along behind them to mark returning paths, while the successful forager and cuticular hydrocarbon sprayers will be located on the skirt. 
Almost all motor output will be a direct function of sensory input as indicated in the following section. 
Pseudocode will approximate this architecture as closely as possible, and where appropriate, different subroutines running on a schema basis will be marked. 
To ease Anties on-board memory requirements and processing capabilities (and to make all the rest of the pseudocode easier for the reader to understand), I propose a few global variables and subroutines. 
Assume a function to determine more precise // location, returning these variables: double left_midden_IP; double right_midden_IP; // Array inputs from left and right alkene sensors. 
Assume a function to determine location: double left_sucfor_IP; double right_sucfor_IP; // Array inputs from left and right successful patroller // sensors. 
Assume a function to determine location: double left_hydrocarb_IP; double right_hydrocarb_IP; // Array inputs from left and right chemical seed detectors. 
boolean midden_detect = false; // is an object midden? 
boolean sucfor_detect = false; // successful forager boolean forager_detect = false; // forager boolean midworker_detect = false; // midden worker poolean patroller_detect = false; // patroller boolean sucpat_detect = false; // successful patroller // thresholds at which inputs may be declared to // have been detected double food_threshold; double midden_threshold; double hydrocarb_threshold; // nestmate hydrocarbons boolean forage_active = false; // activation status as forager Common behaviors will include a forward cruise and turning mechanism, procedures to determine the orientation towards nest and the distance from the nest when outside, in-nest navigation, an escape function for when objects are detected or bumped into, object identification and gripping, a generic algorithm for pheromone plume and chemical trail following, and the identification of other ants. 
// Forward cruise // Takes in a number representing the desired speed. 
// Speeds assumed to be on a 1-10 scale (10 being fastest). 
// The robot will receive the GO command as long as // this function is running. 
// Rotate // Takes in a desired angle to rotate the robot and // rotates accordingly // Assume that 10s is sufficient to rotate the robot // completely around one wheel; this may be changed // in implementation. 
In order to orient itself toward the nest while navigating outside, Antie will need to determine which direction the nest is in and rotate toward that heading, and also how far from the nest it is at its current location. 
return degrees; } // end nestOrient The second function, which would return the distance in centimeters, might look something like this: // Nest Distance // Takes in the polarization sensitive photo diode inputs // and returns the current distance to the nest. 
return dist; } // end nestDist In-nest navigation will be a function of the temperature, read by Anties thermometer and a light source. 
The code may look something like this: // Exit Nest // Uses temperature gradient to navigate towards the nest // entrance from inside void nestExit() { // Reads temperature, scoots forward 1s, reads temperature // again, takes the difference, and determines whether current // heading is increasing temperature reading. 
while(photo_IP < sunrise) { double temp = temp_IP; while([timer] < 1){ forCruz(5); } temp -= temp_IP; if(temp>0) rotate(45); } // end nestExit To enter the nest, such as at the end of a task, Antie will perform the same function, except it will seek a lower temperature instead of a higher temperature, it will avoid light, and it will only activate while Antie is less than 10cm from the nest entrance. 
To avoid bumping into things (including other ants), Antie be provided with an escape function. 
Regardless, this will be a very simple function. 
// Sonar sensors are globally declared. 
rotate(45); } } // end escape Because this function responds to the sensors on Anties around the sides and only its sonar detectors will be able to detect objects in front of it, this escape function will not prevent Antie from being able to locate and pick up objects such as seeds. 
This object detection process will be activated when the front bump sensor is stimulated or when both sonar detectors are stimulated. 
Objects will include midden and food. 
// Check inputs to determine which smell is strongest // if food smell is detected at higher rate and // above the food threshold for detection, Antie // assumes object is food while (bump_front || (sonar_left_IP && sonar_right_IP)) { if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) < ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP)) && ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP) > food_threshold) { food_detect = true; } // if midden smell is detected at higher rate // and above threshold for midden detection, // Antie assumes object is midden else if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) > ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP)) && ((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) > midden_threshold) { midden_detect = true; } } // end objID Once the object has been identified, Antie may grip it and lift it. 
Implementations of chemical gradient following robots using two sensors on antennae stalks has been successful in with analog robots in the past (Webb, 1998), regardless of the potential problem of airflow causing a disturbed gradient over evaporating pheromones. 
Note that a portion of this subroutine does run on a schema basis: // Follow Gradient // Follows a generic chemical gradient, seeking a higher // concentration. 
if (left_IP > right_IP) { [schema] { rotate(-90); forCruz(5); } // end schema } // end if if (right_IP > left_IP) { [schema] { rotate(90); forCruz(5); } // end schema } // end if else forCruz(5); } // end gradientFollow For the purposes of calls later in the pseudocode, I will refer to these subroutines as trailFollow(), findFood(), and findMidden(). 
The final common subroutine will be one for the identification of other ants. 
As harvester ants tend not to engage aggressively with non-nestmates, Antie will only identify other ants as ants if they belong to its nest. 
The difference in ratio is caused by the time ants spend outside in the sun, which depletes their n-alkene levels. 
The code will be similar to the object identification subroutine and may look something like this: // Ant Identification // Identifies an ant that has snuck up on the // unsuspecting robot. 
(Is this a nestmate?) if((left_hydrocarb_IP + right_hydrocarb_IP) > hydrocarb_threshold) { nestmate_detect = true; // In what task is the nestmate engaged? 
Red harvester ants do not retain one task throughout their lifespan, but instead change their behaviors as is appropriate for the colony (Gordon, 1996). 
The midden work behavior will be Anties default initial behavior. 
As previously stated, a midden worker must identify midden, grasp it, and carry it to the surface, depositing it halfway down the mound before returning to collect more midden. 
If // they are midden, grip and carry outside nest. 
Nest patrolling will involve leaving the nest, roaming around on the nest mound for a few minutes, and reentering the nest. 
Research shows that ants do change their behaviors based partly on their perceived life expectancy (Moron, et al, 2007), and that task-switching is partly genetically controlled by a switch in gene expression as the individual ages (Ingram, et al, 2005). 
In order to perform both of these functions, Antie will need a subroutine to explore in a zig-zag fashion, as harvester ants do (Gordon, 34). 
The code may look something like this: // Explore // Takes in desired distance from nest to explore // in cm and moves in a slightly randomized zigzag // pattern void explore(int distance, int time) { // Local Variables int time=0; // integer representing the time to // wander one direction int angle=0; // integer representing number of // degrees to rotate int dir=0; // integer representing the direction to // turn (0=right, 1=left) // Random number generator to add a bit of wanderlust RandomGenerator rGen = new RandomGenerator(); // While loop; robot will keep zigging and zagging // for a set amount of time while ([timer] < time) { if (ant's distance from nest < distance) { // int time gets a random number of seconds // between 3 and 10 time = rGen.nextInt(3,10); // int angle gets a random number of degrees // between 15 and 75 angle = rGen.nextInt(15,75); // function call to rotation subroutine // if dir is 0, rotate to the right; if dir // is 1, rotate to the left. 
if (ant's distance from nest == distance - some small constant) { rotate(135); } // end if // Avoid leaving nest territory else if (nestmate pheromones IP < very low threshold) { while([short timer]) { forCruz(5); // explore a bit further } // end while rotate(45); } // end if } // end if (distance from nest < distance) } // end explore Nest patrollers will only call this behavior for a short distance before returning to the nest to idle for a few minutes and exit again. 
A general site of food is all that the patroller need find; the foragers will dig through the sand for the food. 
void nestPatrol() { while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise] && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) { nestExit(); // Nest mounds are generally up to 1m across // Thus, explore in a 50cm radius (Gordon, 6) explore(50, 120); [schema] { rotate(nestOrient()); forCruz(5); nestEnter(); } wait a short time } // end if } // end nestPatrol // Trail Patrolling // Patrollers exit nest and attempt to find food. 
void trailPatrol() { while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise] && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) { nestExit(); // Explore no further than about 15m from nest, for no // more than 20 minutes if (food_IP > some low threshold){ findFood(); if (food_detect) { [schema] { rotate(nestOrient()); forCruz(5); spray successful patroller pheromone nestEnter(); } wait a short time } } else { explore(1500, 20 * 60); [schema] { rotate(nestOrient()); forCruz(5); nestEnter(); } wait a short time } } // end if } // end trailPatrol For the task-switching in the patrolling behavior, assume some variable age that Antie has been keeping track of using the CPUs clock pulses to track the time since its last bootup. 
// PATROLLING // Task-switching hierarchy for the two types of patrolling void patrol() { while (age > nestpatrol_age && age < trailpatrol_age) { nestPatrol(); } while (age > trailpatrol_age && age < forage_age) { trailPatrol(); } } The final behavior, foraging, will involve one extra subroutine that will employ an algorithm designed by R. 
It would also keep track of whether the last rotation was clockwise or counter-clockwise. 
To address this, a strict subsumption hierarchy will make sure that the foragers do not stop to collect food too soon. 
Boolean forage_today represents Anties // activation status for each day once it has switched to // the foraging behavior. 
// When end of plume is reached, retrieve food. 
Because the midden work behavior is Anties initial default behavior, I will not address task switching to midden work. 
Activated foragers form a queue to exit the nest and exit at a steady rate. 
model of forager activation, every time a successful forager returns and no foragers are currently in line to exit, a fraction (modeled at 0.0035) of inactive foragers joins the queue. 
The code to model this task-switching might look something like this: ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// // TASK-SWITCHING ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// // // Main function of Anties software. 
This would correspond to the change in // gene expression described by Gordon (2002). 
if (sucfor_detect at time n-1 == false && sucfor_detect at time n == 1) { 0.0035 probability: forage_active = true; } while (age > forage_age && forage_active) { forage(); } } // end main Conclusion Antie will be a fully autonomous, situated and embodied agent, infiltrating a red harvester ant colony and providing valuable information not only about the hypothesized rules of these ants behaviors and their task-switching thresholds, but also about the combination of complex behaviors into a single autonomous system with the ability to switch between behaviors as necessary. 
REFERENCES Braitenberg, V. 
MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, 1984. 
Cuticular hydrocarbons inform task decisions. 
Gordon, D.M. 
Gordon, D.M. 
Interaction rate informs harvester ant task decisions. 
Science 318, 1155-1158 (2007). 
(1990). 
Berlin: Springer-Verlag. 
Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. 
Molecular Ecology 14, 813-818 (2005). 
Biol. 
Labhart, T., & Meyer, E.P. 
Current Opinion in Neurobiology 12, 707-714 (2002). 
A mobile robot employing insect strategies for navigation. 
Moron, D., Witek, M., & Woychiechowski, M., Division of labor among workers with different life expectancy in the ant Myrmica scabrinodis. 
Patent 4,492,949. 
Russell, R.A. 
Intelligent Robotics Research Centre, Monash University, Clayton, Australia. 
A comparison of reactive robot chemotaxis algorithms. 
Schafer, R.J., Holmes, S., & Gordon, D.M. 
Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. 
Tonal Structure and Form in Bartks Concerto for Orchestra (I) Drew F. 
Bartks music, although it is often difficult to call completely tonal, never entirely sheds itself of tonal elements and structure. 
We will also examine to what degree a tonal reading of this movement is limited in its analytical potential in an attempt to pinpoint exactly where Bartk strays from common-practice compositional techniques. 
While that does not seem to be a meaningful assertion, it is perfectly accurate: the movement is in sonata form, but there is an introduction that does not relate thematically to any other parts of the movement (not unheard of in Mozart sonatas), and the recapitulation presents the two themes of the exposition in reverse order. 
For example, the fifth string quartet. 
Example 1 shows a diagram of the form of the movement; the symmetry is apparent within the seven sections following the introduction. 
Hence, on either side of the middle section of the development we have the alternation FTG-STG-FTG which makes the overall form, with the exception of the Introduction, symmetric. 
See Wilson, 168-170. 
example 1: formal structure of the first movement Sonata formor, more-or-less sonata formcarries harmonic as well as formal connotations. 
To begin with, the movement is in F. 
Using this interpretation, we can map out the local tonics (tonal centers) used throughout the movement, as shown in Example 2. 
Bartk has often applied a tonic-dominant relationship to a pitch-class and its tritone partner, and even admits to using that as a compositional framework in his fifth string quartet. 
Our analysis will focus instead on relating the foreground activity to the overarching background structure. 
The Introduction As Paul Wilson points out, the title Introduzione given to the movement as a whole seems to apply only to the first 75 measures. 
The Introduction does not relate thematically to any of the main sections of the movementin fact, it is the third movement that draws its thematic material from this sectionbut the harmonic and motivic principles at play here foreshadow some important elements of the entire piece. 
The pentatonic set here is exclusively a pitch-class set, and its incarnations throughout the movement are devoid of any connotations associated with the pentatonic scale. 
The perfect fourth in fact generates much of the motivic and harmonic material of the entire movement, and its importance is immediately evident in the Introduction with the opening bass motive. 
example 3: measures 1-6 (celli and basses) example 4: measures 12-16 (celli and basses) example 5: measures 22-29 (celli, basses and violas) Example 4 transitions from C to F, and adds pitch-class E to the pentatonic set of Example 3, creating a six-note set of stacked fourths. 
The overall motion in the first 29 measures is C to D, through F; these are represented enharmonically in Example 2 as D, E and G. 
So the prevailing structural motion of the movement as a whole is a descending whole step and the prevailing melodic motion is a (usually ascending) perfect fourth. 
This motion is exemplified in Example 2 in the second theme group (mm. 
Each time the motion in Examples 3 through 5 breaks from chains of fourths, the same sequence of intervals occurs: two descending perfect fourths separated by an ascending major second (-5, +2, -5); each instance of this intervallic cell is bracketed in the examples. 
So although there is no thematic relation between the Introduction and the main sections of the movement, within the first 29 measures we can already see structural, harmonic and motivic elements that apply to the movement as a whole. 
This relationship is somewhat obscured by measures 51-57 however; while there is no clear tonal center for this section, G appears in the outer voices in measure 51, although the harmonic material is reminiscent of C minor. 
(Example 7), are related to the first head motive of the first theme, which is shown in the first measure of Example 8. 
Paul Wilson describes the transition from the Introduction to the Exposition as quite abrupt and seemingly unmotivated, Wilson, 173. 
As mentioned, the first theme, the beginning of which is reproduced in Example 8, contains two head motives: the first is the tritone-spanning ascent that appears in the first measure, and the second is an iteration of the interval cell (+5, -2, +5) that appears in the second through third measures. 
Rather, this motive is a small-scale representation of the tonic-dominant relationship of tritone partners, specifically F and B, that is the basis for the harmonic structure of this movement. 
Example 9 reproduces the chords, and Example 10 rewrites them in a meter that is more consistent with their rhythmic pattern. 
This is in strict metric dissonance with the triple meter of the melody (with its own hiccups occurring in the written 2/8 measures). 
E is the tonal center for measures 95-134, although it does not appear as a strong bass note until measure 131. 
The trombone motive in measures 134-141, shown in Example 12, is the subject of the fugato section in part 3 of the development, although its importance is downplayed here. 
This motive also contains the intervallic cell of the second head motive of the first theme in the form of G-C-B-E (with the addition of some passing tones), in addition to consisting largely of motion by perfect fourths. 
E, furthermore, is not convincingly established as a dominant-functioning tone at all. 
However, as previously mentioned, C acts as a fake dominant that in measures 149-155 actually functions as an upper neighbor to B, the true dominant. 
This creates both a smooth transition to the second theme and a strong sense that a new section is beginning, a combination that is generally rather difficult to forge. 
B dominates as tonal center from measures 155-191 with little or no harmonic motion away from it. 
A intervenes between E and D in measure 195another instance of the whole-tone being filled in by a fourth. 
Hence, measures 155-210 constitute the bass progression B-E-D-B; the same stepwise descent (E-D) occurred in the first theme group while F rather than B was being prolonged. 
In Example 2, the entire development section is represented by exactly three pitches, and indeed each subsection is associated with one of these three pitches as its tonal centernone of these pitches is involved in the structural whole-tone descent. 
Wilson, 180. 
Although it moves to E minor in measure 239, it returns to D minor in measure 248, which suggests that E is an upper neighbor prolonging D. 
example 13: measures 248-264 (violins) The second section of the development is in C (which is sometimes spelled D). 
This section returns to the calm simplicity (and tempo) of the second section, though apart from affect there are no references to that section. 
As tempting as this interpretation may be, this observation is relegated to the notes section because it constitutes a horrible abuse of terminologythere is only so far that such tonal analogies can go before they begin to hide any true analytical insight behind misused terms. 
The tonal center B is established immediately in measures 316-318 by the strong V-I chord progression (Example 16). 
The resultant set is the pentatonic set F-B-E-A-D; the entire passage shown in Example 17 remains within this set. 
example 16: measures 316-318: establishment of b The second instance of the fugato section, not reproduced in its entirety but based on the subject in Example 18, is an exact pitch inversion transposed to begin on C. 
The following section (measures 363-389) especially brings out the quartal harmonies within the pentatonic set, so much so that B is obscured as tonal center which allows A to emerge as the goal tone of this sectiononly to be immediately reinterpreted as a leading tone to the A that begins the recapitulation. 
example 17: measures 316-340 (brass): fugato section example 18: measures 342-349 (horns): inverted fugato subject The Recapitulation The recapitulation, as we have seen, presents the themes in reverse order. 
It is worth pointing out that the arrival on G at measure 425 is led into by D, which constitutes another filling in of the whole-step by the intervening fourth. 
Rather than resolve this D back to G, however, Bartk shifts briefly to F in measure 456 and leads to E in measure 467. 
In the recapitulation of this theme, shown in Example 19, the first chord is an F-major chord, and the A is replaced by A in the melody. 
Thanks largely to the work of tonal theorists such as Heinrich Schenker and others, we have a detailed system for analyzing tonal musictheir system, however, is virtually useless in analyzing music that falls entirely on the atonal side of the spectrum. 
To do so was the goal of this analysis of the first movement of the Concerto for Orchestra. 
It is not disputed that Bartks music has great expressive powerperhaps now we can understand why. 
The Music of Bla Bartk: A Study of Tonality and Progression in Twentieth-Century Music. 
Bartk, Bla. 
Selected and Edited by Benjamin Suchoff. 
Martins Press, 1976. 
Space and Symmetry in Bartk. Journal of Music Theory 30 (1986): 185-201. 
________. 
Morrison, Charles D. 
4. Music Theory Spectrum 13 (1991): 179-196. 
Tonal Coherence in the First Movement of Bartks Fourth String Quartet. The Music Forum 2 (1970): 298-371. 
The Music of Bla Bartk. 
Lauren Ballinger 05/12/08 Reaching Transcendence through the Elimination of color: The Ideal Minimalism of Black and White The world is made up of a myriad of colors. 
What would our lives be without color? 
color is seen as corrupting, intoxicating, disorienting and in art, has come to be associated with the vulgar and the kitsch. 
What is the significance for this preference for black and white when it comes to high art? 
What exactly is the debate between colorlessness vs color and more specifically can black and white be considered non-colors? 
Seeing as color is something of the natural world, age old and archaic, washing it away from our lives is the ultimate form of rising above the physical world. 
Inorganic nature has only the language of color. 
The history of color is about the ways in which man has tried to find the ideal state of being throughout the ages. 
What is typical of this sort of ascetism is the art of expressing as much as possible using the minimum as an ideal. 
For them, reaching the greatest depths of spirituality demanded expression in its most minimal form. 
In the Elimination of color in the Far East, Izutsu explains though how this ultimate state of minimalism can only be reached through an appreciation and fine knowledge of color. 
In other words, the true profundity of the beauty of black and white is disclosed only to those eyes that are able to appreciate the splendors of sumptuous and glowing colors with all their delicate shades and tints(Izutsu, p. 
For black and white can only be seen as distinguishing against a background of color and for this very reason one can assert that both black and white are colors in themselves as non-colors. 
It is up to the mind to fill in the blank space. 
colorlessness needs color in order to for the full aesthetic experience to take place. 
177). 
For in its negation of all colors, all colors are positively affirmed(Izutsu, p. 
It is through these means that one finds the essence in a thing. 
color became a moral issue, seen as something sensuous and dangerous in its secondary nature to the essence of life and form. 
color is associated with the Fall from Grace. 
It deals with the body, emotions, not the intellect. 
color for him signifies the mythical savage state out of which civilization, the nobility of the human spirit, slowly, heroically, has lifted itself  but back into which it could always slide(Chromophobia, p. 
White is seen as representing spirituality, the heavens, and light, it is all which is modern, it signifies the opposite of the carnal nature of color. 
WHITE is the spiritual color of our times, the clearness which directs all out actions. 
We have superceded both the brown of decadence and classiscm and the blue of divisionism, the cult of the blue ky, the gods with green beards and the spectrum. 
47). 
Abolishing color means controlling color. 
It keeps an eye on all the objects it frames. 
151). 
On the other hand, we need color in order to distinguish black and white. 
White is the setting for color.. 
The forms stand out clearly; the impeccable construction displays all its boldness. 
209). 
White helps to harmonize colors that would otherwise clash, it brings together and unites. 
The use of white is therefore decisive for the bodily appearance of a space. 
In the white painted room the clarity of spatial sensation and disposition was surest and most convincing, all the details of the form and color of the furnishings could be developed undisturbed in front of this backgroundIn this a form was discovered which was completely convincing in its simplicity and which could be seen as one of the essential formulas for wall treatment in closed spaces(Wigley, p. 
There is another important aspect which white is representative of, and that is the well educated and socially elite. 
These distinctions proved a certain rational order, only attained by those able to afford of it. 
Crisp whiteness on the other hand expresses a sort of luxury, and leisure. 
The same goes with white walls, in their impeccability it proved to whoever, that the owner could afford to not live actually live in this space, or could afford more simply for the upkeep and constant fresh coats of paint. 
..it is also worthy of remark, that savage nations, uneducated people, and children have a great predilection for vivid colors; that animals are excited to rage by certain colors; that people of refinement avoid vivid colors in their dress and the objects that are about them, and seem inclined to banish them altogether from their presence(Chromophobia, p. 
Thus said, the use of black in white in wardrobe perhaps was a way for the new bourgeoisie to distinguish themselves from the decadence of the upper class and the vulgarity from the low. 
40). 
Other major technologies during the age of industrialization also had an effect on this preference for black and white. 
Above all, it is believed that the expanse of literacy and the printed word, mainly the newspaper, had a profound effect in influencing the choice of black and white. 
This led to the idea of writing = rationality = production that confined images, especially images in color, to the emerging field of art, which was understood as an essential activity but one that was essentially unproductive, while it assigned to the two-toned and orderly world of printed paper the role of a daily guide to existence(The Style Engine, p. 
The world of print was therefore seen as something serious for the modern man. 
This then translated down into the world of fashion, as seen with the distinction between black and white clothing, as well as art, namely photography but also film and as discussed before architecture and gallery space. 
The explosion of mass production and printing allowed for a plethora of colorful advertising and consumer goods which came to be known as kitsch. 
In order to meet the demand of mass markets cheap and bright things of little use were made to attract the attention of consumers. 
Kitsch is mechanical and operates by formulas. 
Kitsch changes according to style, but remains always the same. 
Kitsch pretends to demand nothing of its customers except their money -- not even their time. 
Avant guard at the time was considered to be true art, while this kitsch was simply pure imitation. 
Of course during the early stages of color film and photography, the quality was so poor that it gave a cheap look, whereas black and white film really allowed one to see the light and the shadows in the images. 
That was what made up the essence of an image, not the artificial, or superficial filling in of form with color. 
Photographers still use black and white and white is still the most widely used color for walls within gallery spaces. 
When something is black and white, it allows the mind to fill in and imagine for itself the amazing colors that must exist beyond the screen. 
Whether it mean going beyond the mind or simply the purity of non color, the use of black and white has been debated over for the last hundred years. 
Thus is the ebb and flow of life. 
What, exactly, causes homosexuality? 
Others would argue that it is a result of a childs upbringing. 
Perhaps then, it is a combination of some of these? 
in Isay 11). 
In fact, Plato even considered love between two members of the same sex to be the only real and lasting love and necessary for democracy. 
Even Homer wrote about Achilles and Patroclus, who have been considered to be the perfect model of true love (Emond). 
(However, for the purposes of this paper, homosexuality will be looked at solely in terms of men). 
Kertbeny derived this word from the Greek word for same and the Latin word for sex, whereas a heterosexual is a person whose feelings of sexual attraction are for the opposite sex (Marcus 1). 
Hirschfeld also founded the Scientific Humanitarian committee, which was mostly homosexual, in 1897. 
He became known as one of the founding fathers of sexology, and furthered this position when he opened the worlds first sexological institute, the institute for Sexual Science in Berlin, in 1919, which was destroyed by the Nazis 15 years later. 
This theory, which defined Urnings as males who turned to other males as sexual partners, was published in twelve pamphlets by Ulrichs, starting in1864. 
Ulrichs believed that Urnings were attracted to other males because they were hermaphrodites of the mind, meaning while they may have been male in body, they were female in soul and mind, leading them to be naturally attracted to males in terms of sexual partners. 
In an interview in 1903, he professed his beliefs: I am of the firm conviction that homosexuals must not be treated as sick people Homosexual persons are not sick. 
in Isay 3). 
in Isay 3). 
Treatments such as castration, hysterectomy, lobotomy, and electroshock therapy were used as attempted cures. 
Dr. 
The American Psychological Association further reiterated this belief when an overwhelming majority of the Council of Representatives adopted the Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation in 1997, which publicly chastised those who attempted to cure homosexuality by means of various forms of treatment. 
Strangely enough, the study also included pairs of biological brothers that were not twins, and out of the 142 homosexual males studied, only 14, or about 9 %, had homosexual brothers, which is approximately the normal statistical incidence of homosexuality in the general population (Bailey & Pillard). 
As one grows older, they become aware of sexual feelings towards other persons. 
Rather, the only actual choice is whether or not to be open with ones sexuality and sexual preference; whether to act on ones sexual desires, whether to tell others about such feelings, or whether to live a whole life as a lie and suppress these attractions (Marcus 9). 
Dobbens believes that he was born homosexual. 
He went on to explain that while his nurture did not impact his sexual orientation, it did affect his view of it. 
He went on to explain that it the same thing as the primitive attraction between males and females, only it was between males and other males. 
Ive always been attracted to guys (Woods). 
Though he has always kind of fantasized about getting married [to a female], these feelings come from his romantic side, which is different from the sexual side (Woods). 
He then went back to talk about homosexuality as in innate characteristic; Its like race. 
When asked if he thought homosexuality was caused by a gene, he commented that he thought that it was more of an instinct. 
Its not black and white [homosexual vs. 
Yet there are arguments against homosexuality as caused by genetics. 
For instance, heterosexual males have an average of five times as many children as homosexual ones, as a female is required to reproduce children, yet homosexuals are, by definition, not sexually attracted to females. 
Because consequently heterosexual men contribute five times as much genetic information to the next the gene pool, if homosexuality was indeed caused by a gene, it would have died out entirely by now, or at least been reduced immensely in the number of occurrences. 
My findings throughout my research have led me to conclude that there is no definitive answer on what causes homosexuality. 
However this does not necessarily determine a homosexual; rather this predisposition must be triggered by environmental factors. 
Works Cited APA Online. 
Bailey, J. 
"A Genetic Study of Male Sexual Orientation." Archives of General Psychiatry 1089-1096 (1991). 
Telephone interview. 
Emond, Charles. 
June 1999. 
Fulkerson, Richard. 
15 Dec. 
William Dudley. 
Isay, Richard A. 
Is it a Choice? 
Wikholm, Andrew. 
1998. 
Woods, Daniel S. 
6 June 2002. 
Two quintessential novellas, The Lust of the White Serpant from Ugetsu Monogatari by the Japanese author Ueda Akinari and Eternal Prisoner under Thunder Peak Pagoda a traditional Chinese story, are both relatively complex and demonstrate not only the evolution of the White Snake figure to become a more believable human, but also what aspects may have given her enduring appeal. 
Early tales of Madame White Snake appeared in China as early as the Song Dynasty, and initially her portrayal was fairly direct, as a villainous demon who drains the life force out of her human husband. 
But over time, characterizations of her became more complex, and the persona of Madame White Snake became more sympathetic, and perhaps even a model of the ideal Confucian wife, particularly in Pagoda. 
She took on the virtues of a traditional Chinese female, particularly forbearance. 
But if she were really an ideal wife, why could she not live happily with her human mate? 
It refers to a woman who is dangerously attractive, and lures men to their downfall with her sexual attractiveness. 
Ugetsu Monogatari : Tales of Moonlight and Rain : A Complete English Version of the Eighteenth-Century Japanese Collection of Tales of the Supernatural. 
In Eternal Prisoner, Madame White Snakes bewitching beauty follows her lover Hs into his dreams, and the next morning he was so distracted that he could not concentrate on doing business. Eternal Prisoner under the Thunder Peak Pagoda. Trans. 
W. 
M. 
Traditional Chinese Stories : Themes and Variations. 
E. 
While both stories each characterize Madame White Snake fairly consistently within their narratives, the uneven characterization in film noir perhaps mirrors the evolution of her character over time: readers may not be sure whether she is a pure villainess or whether she is a good wife who is badly treated by society, because there is evidence of both throughout her legend. 
The complications in her character serve to undercut the ostensible didactic intent of these stories. 
This is quite similar to the expected end for the femme fatal character in films - she is punished in some way so that social order and proper gender roles are restored. 
In Lust, the priest informs Toyoo Those creatures took advantage of your fair looks and tempted you. 
. 
But are the morals of these stories entirely sincere? 
she gushes to him in Lust. Readers must also acknowledge that her human lover is breaking his promise to her when he leaves her. 
Please, since we are already married, take me back, and lets stay together the rest of our lives. 
In another traditional vernacular story, Tsu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jewel Box in Anger, Tu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jew Box in Anger, trans, Richard M. 
Ho, in Y. 
Ma and Joseph S. 
Boston: Zheng & Zui Co, 1986, 358. 
These stories draw from the long tradition of supernatural and ghost stories, which usually end with the demon destroyed or at least subdued. 
would have been a satisfying ending. 
Conversely, the authors of the two stories examined here do not give readers motivation to wish for the death of Madame White Snake, so the pleasure of the narrative - to borrow appropriate phrasing from film theory - comes not from the death of the insubordinate, disruptive force, from watching the transgressions themselves. 
She writes, the final lesson of the myth often fades into the background and we retain the image of the erotic, strong, unrepressed (if destructive) woman. Janey Place, Women in Film Noir in Women in Film Noir, ed. 
Ann Kaplan (London: British Film Institute, 2003), 48. 
This resistant reading of the text may be too colored by modern viewpoints, since it is impossible to know for certain what readers in the past enjoyed about these stories. 
In fact, Communists in the PRC in the 1970s reclaimed her as a feminist symbol for women who rebel against the patriarchy. 
Just as the dangerous femme fatale of noir films has reemerged as a heroine in her own right, rather than the sexy death trap for the male protagonist, so too Lady White Snake should be reclaimed for her sexual assertiveness and life slightly outside the bounds of conventional social expectations. 
An Extended Essay in History By Philosophy E. 
On that date Jennings Lambeth, president of Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company, announced that most of the steel companys Campbell Works would close. 
Mahoning County was a one-industry area, and the people of Youngstown, Struthers, Campbell, Boardman Township, and the numerous other small towns and villages in the area only had one main employer: the steel mills. 
Rather than sit back and wait for their jobs to be snatched away, the workers and local union members in the mills fought long and hard to be able to keep the factories open. 
These well-intentioned efforts ultimately failed, leaving thousands with shattered dreams and a distinct lack of trust in fellow humankind. 
When examining the areas history, culture, and economic situation we can identify four main reasons: the refusal of the international leadership of United Steelworkers of America to support their unions Youngstown branch, the lagging international steel market, the lack of a clear, organized vision for individual initiatives such as the Save Our Valley Campaign, and crippling regionalism which caused animosity between different small towns in the region, all contributed in some way to the failure of the workers and union leaders to save the industry. 
Although it affected Youngstown and the surrounding area more than it affected other regions, the local people simply could not solve a national crisis on a local level. 
Their blast furnace, Hopewell, was the very first blast furnace in the area. 
Youngstown also was a major railway crossroads, due to its strategic position between Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Chicago. 
By 1880, Youngstowns population had grown to nearly 16,000, which meant it had doubled in size over a twenty-year period. 
This prosperity continued until the late 1920s, when the Great Depression hit the area hard. 
Finally, the outbreak of the Second World War made iron and steel important again, and Youngstown was bolstered out of its economic standstill into a fast-paced period of booming growth. 
This prohibited strikes and lockout, angering workers and driving productivity and laborer morale down. 
Most importantly, Youngstowns steel mills were slowly becoming less efficient and more expensive. 
Between 1977 and 1981, a total of five mills were closed and approximately 25,000 jobs were lost countywide. 
However, it was clear that, in the words of USWA president Lloyd McBride, If you cant make a buck, you get out of the business. The closings meant the end of Youngstowns only real industry, the end of its population growth, and then end of economic progress. 
Those that could afford to move did so; those that couldnt afford to move mostly ended up on the streets. 
It was becoming increasingly clear that without the industrial base provided by the mills, the city of Youngstown would soon become a ghost town, inhabited by those too poor or hopeful to escape. 
However, the representatives were shunted to the side and ignored in Washington, since Youngstowns political influence had died with its industry. 
The petition was lost among paperwork and bureaucratic procedure. 
The Coalition drafter letters to the Lykes Company asking if a group of workers might purchase the mill and run it collectively. 
Finally, following the shutdown of US Steels plant in 1980, local union leaders congregated outside the US Steel Headquarters in Youngstown. 
The workers stayed there until the next day, when US Steel declared that they were ready to talk about selling the mill. 
All these efforts eventually came to nothing, and Youngstowns steel mills remained closed. 
Foreign steel was also much cheaper. 
Also, international competitors drew on a large supply of very cheap labor. 
Labor costs in America continued to go up, draining US companies of their resources, while companies overseas were able to cut labor costs and put that money back into updating and renovating their facilities. 
Steel demand worldwide was beginning to decline, and it affected both domestic and foreign companies. 
Americas steel remained unsold, flooding the world market with inferior products that no one wanted to buy. 
Youngstown was perhaps hit harder than any other town by the collapse of the steel industry, but it was not alone. 
J. 
Trying to prop up one citys mills was impossible when faced with the depression that spread throughout the entire industry. 
As the name suggests, local leaders wanted to instill the people of Youngstown with a fierce sense of urgency, driving them forward to confront steel companies and owners and help secure the future of the region. 
College tuition, clothes, food, and heating all had to come before donations to non-profit organizations. 
The lack of money proved to be crippling, because it prevented the organizations involved from purchasing the mills to run collectively. 
Beyond that, no one knew how they should proceed: everyone knew that saving the mills was important, but nobody stepped forward with a full-fledged plan to do it without losing huge amounts of money and dragging even more people down. 
People became excited and waited for the mills to reappear, but they never did. 
The Apathy of USWA United Steel Workers of America was the union representing the Youngstown steel workers when the closings hit. 
However, it soon became clear that although the local union leaders were prepared to fight, the international branch was not. 
Actually, one main reason for the behavior of the USWA was that union leaders really had no idea what to do. 
It was clear to everyone that the economic fallout from this series of closings would be one of the worst in US history, and so without any real precedents the union leaders were flustered. 
Besides incompetence, the USWA had one other major reason for rejecting their local counterpart: fear of socialism. 
If the USWA supported the efforts to revive the mills and encouraged worker control and ownership of the factories, then the government (and potentially other important people and institutions as well) might begin to think that the UWSA leaders were encouraging socialism. 
Youngstown is the name of the major city area, but surrounding it on all sides are small communities which to the casual viewer are indistinguishable from the main city itself. 
Two blocks over one finds Boardman, a well-off township with a reputation for rich but unsuccessful schools. 
Each town, with their own identity, instills a strong regionalistic feeling within their respective populations, which dictates many habits, exchanges, and interactions between populations. 
With so much regional tension, it became very hard for workers to unite under a common cause, even one that would save their jobs and their futures. 
In this way the people of the Mahoning Valley missed many opportunities for new industrial or commercial lifeblood because of arbitrary arguments where the goal was simply to protect regional pride. 
But to the thousands of people living there, the loss of the mills was a devastating event that sent shock waves through their economic, political, and social futures. 
Hundreds more joined the unemployment lines, or even began living on the streets. 
The steel workers who tried to save their jobs and their lives were part of something greater than themselves, something which would endure long after they had moved away and moved on. 
The Apartment g2 (la pianista irlandesa) 2008-11-09T14:05:29Z ID: 45720 Prequels: 45719 Sequels: 45722 The apartment was nice, for its size. 
A few small crates had been converted into a filing system of some sort, filled to the brim with papers, clippings, and who knows what else. 
Make yourself comfortable, Sheila said carelessly, but still studying me intently with those penetrating brown eyes. 
I expect your things are outside? I nodded. 
Here, Ill help you. Thanks, but theyre all really heavy... Nonsense! 
On Her Own lovinglife307 2008-11-09T14:10:25Z ID: 45721 Prequels: none Sequels: 45789 Hello Marie. 
I looked around me feverishly. 
My mum was the only person to- Have you missed me? 
All I saw was blackness. 
Ive missed you. 
I was so tired. 
I had just traveled about two hundred and sixty miles, for approximately four and a half hours across the bottom of New Hampshire, through Massachusetts, Connecticut, part of Pennsylvania and now finally I was arriving in New Jersey. 
Oh, no you dont. 
I could never forget. 
How can you tell that? I could tell the moment you walked in. 
That, & your boarding pass is sticking out of your pocket with the airlines name facing out. I laughed. 
Thats all I can tell. I nearly fell out of my chair. 
I could see your shoes have been worn a few milimeters, but the canvas is fairly new. 
She shook her head & smiled. 
She snapped her gum, leaning comfortably against the doorway. 
Hey, Beth. I walked up the pathway and into Beths mansion of a house, pulling at my camisole nervously. 
I held in a sigh. 
Everyones downstairs. 
I strode over to the opening. 
I sighed, out loud this time. 
I descended the stairs quickly. 
I was always the life of the party after a few beers. 
There was nothing under me, nothing over me, and nothing around me. 
I sighed happily. 
The report wasnt hard, I had already read the book, and so I just jotted down a few notes for him. 
We kissed more, sitting there, side by side on the couch. 
What are you doing? Oh, cmon Cassie. 
I jerked away. 
I jerked free and ran. 
I didnt know where. 
His technical expertise had been invaluable in the past weeks, but he just didnt have the stomach for the rough stuff. 
You know what we want, interrupted the voice, booming and echoing through the stark environment of the industrial complex. 
I hate when they say that, I thought, I never know what they want. 
The device, Mr. 
We had a lot of devices. 
One by one, they got up from their spot on the sandallowing their eyes to leave the fire,letting it burn out by itself. 
A girl yelled, catching their attention. 
The walked off the beach together, arms linked, as the last car pulled away. 
Silence. 
He stepped away as the car backed up. 
A girl yelled, catching their attention. 
Silence. 
He stepped away as the car backed up. 
As he turned away from the beach, he saw the last flame of the fire, what used to be so huge he was afraid they wouldnt be able to put it out, go away forever. 
"I should be doing my God damn English homework." Her hands dance in mid-air, looking for where she left her pen and paper before her breakdown interlude. 
You let your finger tips play across her features, traveling from tear stained cheeks up to heavy eyelids. 
"And here I thought I was just getting lucky." Copy Ficlet Challenge Wyatt Aapr 2008-11-09T18:00:26Z ID: 45729 Prequels: none Sequels: none Ive somehow managed to write 225 ficlets, to me its amazing. 
However, Ill throw out a Challenge. 
Maybe this one will do better. 
27th (my birthday) Prose of Priscilla, Poetry of Paralee SaveTheUnicorns 2008-11-09T18:00:48Z ID: 45730 Prequels: none Sequels: none If middle school was a kingdom, then Priscilla would surely be the queen. 
She wore stylish, trendy clothes, and was the one that people strived to please. 
There was another who was all of this and so much more. 
Cocooned Stovohobo 2008-11-09T18:04:41Z ID: 45731 Prequels: 45697 Sequels: 45737 Contoured metallic parts glided and folded out over me, emerging from the wall and pushing me back in with them. 
I screamed. 
Do nOt mO-ove. 
I could see I was totally encased in metal. 
The bar of blue light retracted into the front of my shell, and with a sudden lurch, the pod hurtled upward. 
Stay For the Weekend K 2008-11-09T18:09:26Z ID: 45732 Prequels: none Sequels: 45740 She ducks into your car, followed by a cloud of perfume and a burst of autumn air. 
Her blonde curls tickle at your face and you smile into her neck. 
You needed this- orange leaves and winding roads, the sound of her voice and the radio humming softly in the back of the car. 
She laughs at your drunken tales and you roll your eyes at the boys who do not realize they are lucky to have her around. 
If only she realized that she does not have to look very far.... 
He couldnt afford anything else she might have to offer, but lookin at her bloomers was free. 
They had to maneuver around the small pile of broken rail pieces. 
Would you look at that, said Wilber. 
There were six pairs of panties, pink, red, black, purple, white with frilly lace and yellow. 
Profession g2 (la pianista irlandesa) 2008-11-09T18:38:52Z ID: 45734 Prequels: 45722 Sequels: 45885 Deductions? Of course. 
One must be bold in deductions, must not be afraid of being wrong. But, if one is wrong? She shrugged. 
But one always must first observe & gather the facts, then draw conclusions. 
I wouldve continued, but an odd, siren noise rang out.Oh! Sheila exclaimed, reaching for her black Alias. 
You see, I like to keep my mind busy with small problems, & people will come to me for advice. Like a detective? She shot me a look. 
Huge difference between the two. She turned back to her phone. 
If anything youll be a help! 
The one thing that cheers me up when I am sad. 
~THE END ~ (Serial Killer Challenge) Curtains For Kitty Kermitgorf 2008-11-09T19:05:24Z ID: 45736 Prequels: 45717 Sequels: none A maniacal laugh seemed so clich, but that is exactly what Cesar did as he stood before Millicent and her children, holding their kitten in his beefy hands. 
Their mother looked with contempt upon the loathsome slime bag holding their kitten. 
He would threaten the girls next, she knew. 
He can identify me lady, I simply cannot allow that to happen. 
He picked up the youngest child by the scruff of her neck and said, " Now tell me where he is." Mental Coaching g2 (la pianista irlandesa) 2008-11-09T19:06:04Z ID: 45737 Prequels: 45731 Sequels: 45743 I couldnt see anything, I was awaiting the pit of my stomach to return. 
The man had mentioned programming. What the heck did that mean? 
Was I going to be brainwashed? 
Horridly, horridly wrong. 
What does it matter? 
Oh, it matters. 
Youve made it three days, right? 
You can survive now, just keep it together, man! 
But how was I going to keep it together? 
band geek 2008-11-09T19:11:34Z ID: 45738 Prequels: 45706 Sequels: 45741 We both laughed, and then stopped. 
Same action, different things." He thought for a minute. 
That makes sense." We both went quiet, then he said, "Have you always been -- you know, blind?" "Yes." "Oh." 'Oh' seemed to be his response to many things. 
I didn't really have a reason. 
Before today, I hadn't even known other people could do things like this. 
Albertson-Penny Elementary. 
I mean, he was kind of a jock, a student-council type, and thats not really my scene, but its not like I wanted him to die. 
I guess the poor guy got caught up in the high school experience. 
Andrew Gail goes home one Friday night after the football game and blows his head off. 
Grey K 2008-11-09T19:15:43Z ID: 45740 Prequels: 45732 Sequels: 45783 When you return to the city one boring train ride later, it is stifling. 
You run to Starbucks to grab a Pumpkin Spice latte before delving into piles of schoolwork. 
Your roommate drags you from the room after what feels like an eternity with promises of booze and boobs. You roll your eyes but willingly oblige; your term paper is not moving any further tonight. 
In the blackness that is her dorm room, all you can see is the whites of her eyes. 
Nothing matches the color of home. 
band geek 2008-11-09T19:17:26Z ID: 45741 Prequels: 45738 Sequels: 45755 "So are they going to fix it?" he asked. 
They've said they could fix it before; never worked." "Do you know what they're trying this time?" "No -- they didn't exactly explain it. 
and they might be able to fix it." "Oh." I stopped tapping the wall. 
"So is anything wrong with you?" "By wrong, you mean?" "Like, I don't know, a side-effect. 
Things are going to be different for me, but nothing bad." "Yeah. My clock announced, "1:00 PM. 
There was enough gravity so that now, I could walk without floating up into the air. 
The Friend Music-Hearted 2008-11-09T19:40:33Z ID: 45742 Prequels: 45739 Sequels: 45795 Me? 
Bobby Erickson. 
Didnt everyone? 
Sophomore year, we were the only ones who made Varsity. 
I dunno, its kind of weird to talk about him. 
I mean, yeah, sometimes he would get all deep and stuff, you know? 
Its weird now. 
I dunno what to say. 
My restraints unlatched and popped me out, sending me sprawling on the marble floor. 
Arched windows surrounded me, showing me absolutely terrifying views of the rest of the city. 
To the right was the Main Control building, where the computers where maintained and supervised. 
Subject IL45094 : David Carter. 
Age: 24. 
RBMI : 22. 
Remembering a Thank You Dreamer 2008-11-09T20:17:03Z ID: 45744 Prequels: 45445 Sequels: 45747 His fingers ran across the keyboard for a moment. 
I watched him move the mouse, saving the document and then clicking on internet explorer. 
I examined his face in silence. 
Suddenly, in an unexpected movement, he hugged me. 
What had happened last night?Thank you, he whispered again and I felt wetness as his eyes overflowed with tears. 
Cynthia had died at exactly seven this morning. 
Like I was just another thing. 
The world would go on spinning if I was gone. 
I began twisting it in my mind, to occupy myself: Ill for five o nine fours... 
ill too, to for-ti-five forty nine isles... 
But now, it didnt matter. 
I spun in a giddy circle, for a moment completely oblivious to my situation. 
I dropped to the floor, dizzy. 
No no, before that. 
Weve never seen anything like it. Stovohobo's Ficlet Challenge the Fifth...No, Sixth? 
Okay, so: click on the home button, then look at Your Library. 
Problem is, the tag page only shows as many tags as it can hold (meaning, for me, just numbers and as). 
Then write your entry using those tags somewhere in the story. 
This should be interesting... 
But Paige was by my side the whole time, helping me explain everything. 
Litterally. 
My mother welcomed her into our household with open arms. 
She cried alot, and held onto me as we sorted through them, putting them all in order. 
Paige never ceased to amaze me with her dogged determination to get things done. 
She still insists that it was all my doing, but I know better. 
Remembering Drew's Ending (Part 2) Dreamer 2008-11-09T20:36:44Z ID: 45748 Prequels: 45747 Sequels: 45749 It was strange, having people read something that was so personal. 
They were people who had gone through similar trials we had. 
She named the website after our book: Remembering. 
We are both attending Nebraska State (by some miracle I was accepted), and working on year three. 
We connect on a level no one, I think, including me, will ever understand. 
But thats another story. 
And I wont be alone. 
So many happy times I spent with Drew as the years progressed from that turbulent time in our Senior year. 
His happiness continues to feed mine as we rebuild our lives. 
All he ever talks about is how Ive changed him. 
But then I dont. 
I know that, and Ive always known that ever since I found him waiting for me Christmas Eve night. 
Actually, a few of our friends dont even know were dating. 
Then, Stage programming tests 345.9.35 proven incorrect: humans insusceptible to pattern-based programming. Another voice. 
Theory 345.6: human activity unpredictable/paradoxical? Searching status options...arrival: impossible. The robot looked confused again, and waddled mechanically out of the room. 
I understood little of what the computers said, but I had a feeling I won. 
After growing up the way we did, how could I ever expect it to be? 
More than that, we lived. 
I dont think I ever fully appreciated what Drew went through until I began the journey for myself. 
All I know now is how I work through everything, day to day. 
And I will push on. 
NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Last Class .:band baby:. 
All he can talk about, for a change, is how excited he is to be actually taking me on a date. 
It is like he has suddenly let go of his past love, or at least decided to try and move on. 
He says okay and then kisses my cheek quickly. 
Immediately warning bells go off in my head. 
"Ready to go?"? 
"Oh, uh. 
2008-11-09T21:15:37Z ID: 45753 Prequels: 45752 Sequels: 45754 Chris laughs and makes a sweeping gesture, "After you, milady."? 
Chris falls into step besides me. 
"Ready!"? 
"Let's go then."? 
I follow him out the doors and to his car. 
Crush came on half way to the lake and I immediately reached and turned it up. 
"What?"? 
"Is it bad that I think you're cute when you sing?"? 
"It may be. 
"Not yet you aren't."? 
We get out and he takes my hand. 
NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Swing .:band baby:. 
I ask. 
He starts walking to a big oak, "I'll show you."? 
I say. 
"A swing?"? 
Chris says. 
"Sure."? 
Chris walks behind me and gently begins to push. 
band geek 2008-11-09T21:36:10Z ID: 45755 Prequels: 45741 Sequels: 45756 I hated when people thought I was incapable of so much more than I actually was. 
People knew what I could do, yet they thought I wasnt able to do little things, like walking down a hallway. 
He hadnt known me before today. 
Like a brother, almost. 
It wasnt very much. 
Once I was finished, I headed back into my room. 
All I could think of them doing for me was bringing me more pain. 
To not even see colors.."? 
Colors were just an abstract idea; there's really no way to imagine seeing anything but the colors you can already see, now is there? 
they both said in unison. 
They stepped up closer to my bed. 
I asked. 
one of them replied. 
"Regan. 
And your friends?"? 
one of them said, followed by, "I'm Lucy."? 
She couldnt see the spirits undoubtably floating around her, but she knew they were there. 
Its awful waters were cluttered with the waste of humans  broken pottery, discarded farming tools, ruined jewelry. 
She hesitantly handed him the coin, and his dark, empty eyes invited her on the barge. 
A few yards in front of her, growling and snarling, Cerberus sat with trails of drool hanging from his teeth. 
Persephone herself was kind enough, for the wife of the King of the Dead. 
Too easy, Psyche thought. 
I spent most of the long class either glancing at the clock or glancing at Anna taking notes intently. 
Coudrote. Ah, the Cood She said with a sly tone. 
Down this hall. 
Her walk was hypnotizing. 
I caught up to her side. 
You do know your way around. I said, regretting words the second they left my mouth. 
Yah, like I have been here awhile. Ill bet, I said. 
I loved listen to her talk. 
I couldnt believe my little gimmick actually worked. 
But would I win the war? 
I began bobbing to some incoherant song that had lodged itself into my head. 
It took shape; it was a favorite of mine: La Paga. 
In short: total rocking out. 
One minute, you jumble numbers incoherently, but the next you send vocal impulses in a coherent pattern, in a manner you call rocking out? He shook his head. 
Bud, you got a heck of a lot more to learn about humans. questions. 
They said we were going to Earth! 
Both girls had a weird habit of finishing each other's sentences where the other left off. 
"Why are you here?"? 
"Well, I have an idea. 
"Is it your eyes?"? 
These girls were much too curious about this. 
"Are you blind?"? 
So many questions. 
When I'd been talking to him, though, I hadn't really noticed it. 
The girls just asked out of curiosity. 
Another person came inside. 
It was Dr. 
Eros and Psyche 15 - the Reunion canadianwriter 2008-11-09T21:50:05Z ID: 45761 Prequels: 45757 Sequels: 45762 As soon as Psyche had repeated the dreary process and stepped out of the Underworld, she breathed in the clean air. 
Psyches eyes fell on the box of cosmetics. 
He swept over to her body and picked her up in his arms. 
Admiring her face once more, Eros opened his wingspan and flew off to Zeuss palace. 
Your mother wont like it, he laughed, but she certainly cant say no to this! Eros pushed a very shaky Psyche up to Zeus, who promptly laid his hands on her shoulders. 
Go now knowing you will live for eternity. Immediatley Psyches form began to shimmer, and Eros ran up to her, enfolding her in his arms and wings. 
Get off her, my son! she shrieked. 
But that is where you are wrong. 
It is true, he replied. 
Pt 4: Babbling Freedom 2008-11-09T22:03:00Z ID: 45763 Prequels: 45758 Sequels: 45935 He was staring at me so intently, I smiled again nervously. 
I started babbling about the school and blahblahblah but he continued to stare with the cute little glimmer in his eyes. 
I pushed the thoughts of my football player away and focused on the words coming out of my mouth. 
He opened the door for me and I strolled up to the teacher. 
Hello. 
The Cood said to me with a fake smile. 
Whatever. 
Naw, I shouldn't tell him. 
Why do you even bother asking? 
Why you ask? 
Maybe because I dont want to be the reason why my father has to tear you to shreds. 
The bigger question is why do you keep asking why? 
It doesnt change. 
Its crazy and going to get us both killed. 
No Im not sneaking a guy over. 
Stupid, crazy, or maybe both. 
Especially since your the one who doesnt have time to make it official. 
The story of Eros and Psyche is said to be the first fairy tell ever written, and most definetly the sweetest. 
Some say the reason Eros is not in many myths was because Psyche kept him home all the time  he went from being mischevious and abusing of his power to a well-loved man (god?) with a wife. 
Eros and Psyche - the End canadianwriter 2008-11-09T22:08:38Z ID: 45766 Prequels: 45762 Sequels: none In one of the happiest stories in Greek mythology, Love (Eros) and Soul (Psyche) were finally united. 
Nothing can seperate the two, not even the tempermental, envious goddess of Love. 
Others say Psyche never was granted immortality, and died in Eross arms, causing him immense and lasting sadness, but what kind of a story is that? 
The woman was there too, running next to us. 
It was as if I couldnt focus, couldnt seem to actually pay attention to my surroundings. 
I saw the dogs, but didnt say anything. 
It was a little weird. 
Confusing. 
angry. 
He shut the door and sat down in a chair next to my bed. 
"Those two have a very" interesting ability. 
"Useful? 
"Could mean many things, could mean nothing. 
Anyway, I came in here to talk about-" "Answer my question!"? 
"Not now. 
I hated how, no matter how rude and angry I could be, Karon would always stay so calm. 
I've already told you we have the ability to fix it. 
"No? 
he asked, concerned. 
I turned on my side so I wouldn't have to face him anymore. 
"Regan-" "GO!"? 
My thoughts were racing. 
"Regan, calm down."? 
I was picturing something horrible, something on its way to kill Karon. 
"You can't do it."? 
"Get out of here."? 
"Regan-" he put his hand on my shoulder. 
Why did he act so understanding? 
This only happened to me once before, when I just couldn't control anything. 
Though at first glance they might SEEM to be my contemporaries who where going to school while I was not, but who was worst; the girl minding her own business at the edge of the woods, or the 16 year olds smoking outside the school. 
Both Chloe and Alex decided to fully immerse themselves in the film on the screen to try and deny themselves the truth in what had happened just minutes ago. 
Each one pretended that the other was only a figment of their imagination. 
Alexs fingers lingered in the bowl while Chloe quickly withdrew her hand. 
As though suddenly inspired, Alex grabbed the bowl and placed it on the table with a sheepish grin. 
Chloe attempted to muffle a laugh. 
Alex chortled nervously. 
Before they realized it, they were holding each other, laughing until tears escaped their eyes. 
Tickets please, repeated the sharply dressed man in the little blue cap. 
Who the... Im the ticket agent, of course. 
In a blur a lovely woman with startlingly dark hair took a seat across from Jake. 
Im not Alfred Hitchcock, if thats what youre thinking, she teased with a wry smile. 
How the crap did I get on a train? 
Aha! 
Now it was time to kill a human. 
She was in my ninth grade class. 
I followed her home for two weeks, just getting to know the route and her neighborhood. 
And during the winter months the workmen were gone when school let out. 
All I did was call out her name and she walked over to me. 
I dragged her over to a ditch, and covered her with a piece of scrap plywood. 
The cave was the home of hundreds of rats. 
Three days later I went back and there was nothing left. 
Louis Armstrong Fast forward. 
Pause. 
Both sent her imagination reaching far beyond the four walls containing her in her bathroom. 
Billie Holiday. 
Imaginatively speaking, she was in Italy, floating down a river,next to a shore with white lights strung through trees, sparkling as bright as the stars above. 
StopThe water drew cold chills up her spine and her skin shriveled as if trying to wring water out of itself. 
Unplug ==where?== band geek 2008-11-10T10:38:37Z ID: 45775 Prequels: 45767 Sequels: 45944 The helicopters were coming our way, I heard them coming nearer. 
I followed, and without thinking, jumped down as well. 
Where are you going? I asked once I caught up with her. 
Theres dogs. 
The only way to lose them would be by either crossing the river, or just swimming downstream. 
How had she known there was a river there? 
I looked behind me, all around me. 
We could easily hide, if the helicopters came near. 
We could all get out of here- Wait... 
Below the Burning Sky Thyme Passing 2008-11-10T10:53:49Z ID: 45776 Prequels: none Sequels: none Arenn stood high on the cliff, looking down at the smoldering ruins, the smoke blowing into the westward setting sun. 
As if reading my thoughts, Arenn turned and looked deep into my eyes.You, child, she said, beckoning to me. 
Odd, but I had never thought of our leader as beautiful before, only sly. 
I saw a fire in her black eyes. 
Have you ever talked to our neighbors Abbey? 
I sure havent. 
Cant you see how strange that is? 
End of discussion. Look. 
Their cars havent moved in four months! 
Lives? 
If youre going then Im coming too. Abbey, depleted from the argument, compromises. 
Are you an daddy fighting? He sniffles. 
I guarded the person known as Alice Black for a year and a day in her youth at the orders of the former Queen of Midnight, came with her to live at the Night Palace in Amaron, and stood by as the Queen of Midnight instructed her in the ways of the old order. 
My name is Makatrice, and I was there. 
Alice had never been happy being the daughter of two of the Days. 
The night was the only thing that interested her. 
He told Alices parents who she was to be the heir of as soon as they walked through the door. 
They told him to spin the Bone Wheel, so they could see for themselves. 
The Diviner makes no mistakes. 
Alice was the Midnight Heir. 
As I worked my jaw, I blinked my eyes, trying to adjust to the brightness of the floodlamps behind that illuminated the room before me. 
Before me was a mirror, set into the wall next to a heavy metal door. 
The blood had long since darkened to brown, but I still recognized it as her scarf. 
Except for the dull glow of the mirror in front of me, which now manifested as a window, backlit from the other side. 
The door is wide open, honey, Im gonna give a holler and if no one answers were leaving. The screen door creaks open. 
HAPPY HALLOWEEN . 
Seth follows with some trepidation. 
They are trapped. 
Seth tries to secure Calvin in his arms but the G force plasters him to the floor as the house shifts from the earth and lifts off at a speed unfathomable. 
Let Me Shine Saint Chuck 2008-11-10T13:45:51Z ID: 45782 Prequels: none Sequels: none You are the lightI am the shadowSitting in the glow Of your flameHanging onTo the threads of lightThat encompass youMake you unattainableYet bind me to youIn a wayThat I knowI will never be able to let goKeep me in your glowFeed me those threadsAnd let me shine Diamond K 2008-11-10T14:17:06Z ID: 45783 Prequels: 45740 Sequels: 45840 When you arrive at her door, she is flustered, but smiling. 
I missed you, you admit, and you can feel her lips mold into a smirk where her head is pressed to your chest. 
Its a feat that only she would manage. 
But then, youre not entirely sure how youre supposed to find the sparkle of a diamond in the sunlight, when all you can really see is the shine in her eyes. 
For a while there was the sound of yelling and doors slamming, and then an entourage of hansom cabs drove up the road, containing Noon and his escort. 
At long last, the door was opened for us by Noon himself. 
Do come inside. NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Catch Me Blusparrow 2008-11-10T14:55:22Z ID: 45785 Prequels: 45754 Sequels: 45786 I laugh as the swing picks up speed. 
It is like we are two kindergardners at a playground. 
I am now flying. 
I open my eyes to see him standing infront of me. 
He yells to me. 
He runs and catches me around the waist. 
He smiles at me and puts me down. 
I say laughing really hard. 
"I should be going,"? 
"Oh" ya""? 
NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 He Would Have Blusparrow 2008-11-10T14:57:11Z ID: 45786 Prequels: 45785 Sequels: 45791 "I wish I could stay,"? 
"Comon, I'll take ya home. 
I wish this could never end. 
Just maybe he will. 
"What?"? 
"Ok, bye,"? 
It hits me as I fumble the keys for the door. 
I keep this thought going as I walk into the door. 
I hear my sister calling from the living room. 
How can you be sure? She asked again. 
Ive talked to him long enough to tell that hes totally head over heals for you, Lucy answered. 
You just thought you were wrong. 
Hes always LOVED you. Still... If you wont believe me then just go ask him. 
Sure enough, there he was. 
Janices eyes opened wide. 
Whats the worst that could happen? 
No big deal. 
You always have such a sunny disposition of life. 
Doesnt it make me wonderful? 
Talk to him! Lucy ordered in a soft whisper. 
Hey Janice, Kyle said, a bit hesitantly.Hi... 
He still felt guilty about something. 
that really wasnt the question I had intended to ask you. It wasnt? Janice said, looking up, her eyes catching his, her breath stopping.No it wasnt, he said, the courage building inside him. 
Seeing the pizza stains, and smelling my clothes made me remember to change before I met my long lost relative. 
I snuck behind a bush, quickly switching my dirty t-shirt and jeans for a plaid skirt and white blouse. 
26 Maple Boulevard, Bloomfield, New Jersey. 
18, 20, 22, 24... 
Lucky number 26. 
My sweat glands were working overtime. 
(Have you ever seen those before? 
Lots of Silence penguincaptain18 2008-11-10T15:36:26Z ID: 45790 Prequels: 45788 Sequels: 45810 Really? 
Seriously, I needed to ask you something important, Kyle said, regret painted across his face.Why didnt you? ...I was scared, he said looking down again.What were you scared of? Janice couldnt imagine anything scaring something this perfect. 
But your answer. 
Kyle... 
2008-11-10T15:39:25Z ID: 45791 Prequels: 45786 Sequels: 45792 "Yeah?"? 
I walk hesitantly into the living room where my sister is surrounded by books in the middle of the floor. 
"And where are the boys?"? 
And these are wedding dress catalogues."? 
"Help me find one? 
I saw the perfect one for you."? 
"Here!"? 
She looks like a child on Christmas morning. 
Come look."? 
4 Dress .:band baby:. 
And look at the bodice! 
The tight fitted top would show off your flat stomach perfectly! 
These three bows down the back are to die for."? 
The dress was beautiful, but I couldn't stand to think about it! 
Uh, shouldn't we be getting ready though?"? 
Amber says. 
I laugh at her and follow her upstairs. 
and digging through her closet. 
2008-11-10T15:41:07Z ID: 45793 Prequels: 45792 Sequels: 45796 I shake my head and go to the bathroom to start my hair, knowing once Amber picks an outfit she'll own the bathroom. 
I pull my hair out of its ponytail and shake it out. 
Taking out my straightener I wonder what I should wear. 
I plug in my straightener and turn it on. 
Amber is just getting dressed in a mini skirt and button down pink blouse. 
I ask. 
She replies. 
I say before returning to the bathroom and straightening my hair. 
I really dont want to talk about Andrew. 
I have been saving this blue dress for formal date and I guess now is the time to bring it out. 
My dress had a tight waist and flowed to the knees. 
Edwin is waiting at the bottom with a huge smile on his face. 
His pants are black. 
He says and grins. 
"You do look great sista,"? 
"You do too,"? 
NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Fun Too? 
We picked these dresses out together one time. 
Edwin takes my hand gently and we walk out the door. 
"Who's car is this?"? 
Our father sent it for us today."? 
I say in ashtonishment. 
The whole ride is just filled with the blaring of rap. 
As a father, I always wondered if I was good enough. 
I thought he was on his way, but I was blind. 
I should have talked to my boy, I should have asked him how he felt. 
I made mistakes- Andrews mother will be the first to tell you that. 
If youll excuse me, now. 
2008-11-10T16:49:19Z ID: 45800 Prequels: 45797 Sequels: 45801 We pull up at Andiamo and Amber glances back at me. 
Ashton gets out and walks around to open the door for Amber. 
He leans back in and helps me get out of the backseat. 
I am so nervous. 
She shows us to a table in the back near a lit fireplace. 
The girl says before leaving."This is amazing guys!"? 
I say."It's just a little something."? 
Just then a very professional looking waiter walks up to our table. 
He says, a strong British accent in his voice NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Jeffery .:band baby:. 
Edwin says, taking Amber and me by surprise. 
"He came over to show the cooks our favorite dish. 
Jeffery nods in our directions, "Hello Ma'am."? 
"What we discussed then, Sir?"? 
"That'll be splendid!"? 
Jeffery nods and then heads off towards the kitchen. 
I say childishly. 
I forget most people don't."? 
"Same."? 
Inconspicuously, he nods toward Edwin. 
"So, what are we having?"? 
Obsession Mr. 
I bet you heard this a million times before, i just came to a new town, blah blah, new school, no friends, but i felt like the town of Marzark was way different than the others. 
Is he the new kid?... 
Hi, Im Jared. He stretched out his arm, apparently wanting me to shake it. 
Who shakes hands? 
I was actually starting to love school! 
I kept looking for some flaw, but nothing seemed to come up. 
After school, Jared invited me to hang out with him.. 
Legend of Rain Akinaxx 2008-11-10T18:28:26Z ID: 45804 Prequels: none Sequels: none A legend older than time itself, is about to unravel. 
All one can do is sit and listen to the tale as it plays out on a screen much larger than those of the theater. 
We the faithful people of his highness must follow the rules set for us by royal law. 
That is the fate of those who live in this land, and that is how it has always been. 
This strong willed girl will fight harder than any soldier ever has and will release her homeland from its suffering, and forever leave her name in glory, Rain. 
She hugged her precious spiral to her chest, her eyes focusing on the feet trampling around her. 
Once opening the door, she wasnt sure if the smoked filled room was any consulation from the hallway. 
Never. 
I know how to find what makes a person tick. 
An odd thing, the human mind. 
falls apart, if one can mess it up just right. 
Most usually just go to pieces & do my job for me. 
Thats where force comes in. 
Its usually my trusty switchblade. 
Kill me now! 
Out comes the switchblade. 
Cody was thankfully absent today. 
I didnt have to worry about people dying today. 
Bored....bored....bored... 
I brushed my head off to see white crumbs land on my desk. 
I looked up. 
What? I murmured. 
Pay attention in class for once! Miss Widler yelled. 
I blinked and stated, Yes Miss Widler...but the the ceiling...its snowing. Everyone looked up at that moment, but of course the ceiling stopped by that time. 
Youve just wasted a good 5 minutes of learning. 
They never listen to me. 
Um...Whats your name? His voice is so melodious. 
Um..ya, hehe, sorry, my name is Peyton, Peyton Dallas. Oh like the football player? Id never seen a game of football in my life.. 
Well Peyton, I need help finding my first block..its um.. 
Craiggory. Oh, Im headed there too! Great! 
(anybody wanna sequel?) Woman's Intuition and Patience penguincaptain18 2008-11-10T19:41:37Z ID: 45810 Prequels: 45790 Sequels: 45859 Slowly his face lifted. 
Janice... 
I just... Kyle. 
Im just not sure that I could, he said, his face about to go back to the floor.Just ask me Kyle. 
Just ask me already. You sure are persistent arent you? Persistent, stubborn, focused, wonderful. Thats why I l- Kyle stopped. 
Patience is a virtue.I dont know how to say this, Kyle finally forced out.Just say it. 
You probably wont get one. I hope I dont. You wont. Kyle looked hopeful. 
It was August 25, Bellas first day of school at CW stanford Middle school. 
the year before Bella went to AL Standback Middle school, CWS s rival wich caused even more pressure on her. 
Bella was glad to here from her new boyfriend, Tommy Warren. 
Will Bella make it through the new year as a 7th grader at a new school, with new kids, wich ment new drama!? 
PLEASE COMMENT saying if u think it could make a good story or not! 
Games [Serial Killer Challenge] Music-Hearted 2008-11-10T20:06:07Z ID: 45813 Prequels: 45717 Sequels: none I like games. 
Middle school was cruel, full of disgusting, stinking children. 
Practically taunting me and my scissors. 
So when I invited her over to play a game with me, nobody suspected a thing. 
I remember her straw-hair wound tightly around her neck; I didnt need any rope. 
Want to play a game with me? 
First, you must play along. 
He panicked. 
The walls were closing in. 
The words wouldnt come. 
He choked and convulsed in the water. 
No! 
His eyes bulged and his legs jerked around. 
hello. 
Then he died. 
.:band baby:. 
Yeah? I say coming out of the bathroom. 
That means so is yours. I say sticking my tongue out at her. 
After you. We both walk out laughing, our arms linked at the elbows. 
Ready? They ask. 
I walk up to Tristan and wrap my arms arond him. 
I missed you too. I answer, smiling up at him. 
Im sorry I love you! He teases. 
He listened to my chest and I blacked out. 
I felt woozy and blacked out  again. 
Then I saw him in the kitchen. 
I just want to know your name. I wont tell you. I lunged at him and grabbed his throat. 
I let go, and he fell to the ground. 
I killed the penguin of my dreams. 
This can't be healthy. 
The memories I had of him were all memories of when we were going out, when I thought I was in love. 
There was just one thing. 
But. 
If it was the best few months of your life, wouldnt you want to remember?Oh, and what sucked the most? 
I went a good three seconds before hyperventilating and putting it back on my finger. 
I needed to just forget him, because I was dying inside. 
I needed him to breath. 
I needed to move on. 
Or for anyone.. 
Green grass. 
Beaches. 
the moon, basically. 
That warm fuzzy feeling that you get when you are loved. 
Friendships that annoy the hell out of you but you know will work out. 
Having a bedroom all to yourself. 
HAVING A CHOICE . 
Good food, and plenty of it! 
Wrapped in a warm, fluffy quilt. 
Communication. 
Doing what you love. 
A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 2 Demosthenes 2008-11-10T21:04:23Z ID: 45819 Prequels: 45818 Sequels: 45820 Caligraphy. 
Mathematics. 
Snow day!! 
Sunglasses that fall off your face when you run, but look freaking awesome when youre standing still. 
FAITH . 
Being trusted. 
Making mistakes! 
DON T WE ALL ?? 
Being unique! 
Making money. 
Curled up on the couch on a rainy day. 
An evening at home chatting up a storm on AIM . 
MUSIC . 
Big butts! 
Let emotion spill over and catch your tears in something...a box, a hat, a bag. 
A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 3 Demosthenes 2008-11-10T21:06:40Z ID: 45820 Prequels: 45819 Sequels: 45821 Carrying your love everywhere you go. 
Not quite being there yet, but getting there. 
Talking things out. 
Freshly brewed A&W Root Beer. 
ANYTHING that makes you LAUGH OUT LOUD . 
Self-esteem.... 
Being a teenager. 
Being...um, older. 
Not knowing what time it is. 
People to talk to. 
A clean place to eat. 
Romance. 
Discovering a new love. 
FLIRTING . 
Sitting on the wet grass and then having wet pants. 
Not having children. 
A heavy snow storm. 
Being late for the bus but having someone to drive you to school. 
The smiles you get after vacation is over. 
The satisfaction you get when you win a card game. 
but worth it!! 
A short note from a close friend. 
Emotion. 
Logic. 
I finally finished the page! 
I mean... 
BIG WORDS !! 
WHATEVER ! 
The sound of the rain on the roof! 
WERE SNOWED IN ! 
MAGIC . 
Choosing not to sing. 
Spur of the moment! 
Freezing cold. 
Forget regret, or life is yours to miss. 
I nearly veered off it. 
I was daydreaming again. 
I reprimanded myself. 
The wind was blowing hard. 
What am I trying to prove anyway? 
I swung my legs over the seat and let the bike fall to the ground. 
Im just a normal guy. 
What are you hiding from? 
That is a very good question. 
He felt the windows  extremely thick plastic-type material to keep out the vacuum. 
Terrifying. 
She collapsed back on the floor, chest heaving as she grasped for air. 
He turned around and grabbed it. 
Seth thought he could use some of that right about now. 
Seth grabbed his son and gathered him close, fear and confusion leaping through his heart. 
Suddenly a warbling chatter echoed from the ceiling. 
Welcome aboard, Maver family. Oh, Julianne lovinglife307 2008-11-10T22:06:18Z ID: 45825 Prequels: 45451 Sequels: 45940 I still remember finding her, how faded she was. 
I remember the overpowering sense of loneliness and sadness and grief. 
The anger, oh the anger. 
I wanted to hurt him, to make him suffer like hed made her suffer. 
I remember how scared I was of these feelings, of how I had forced myself to stay calm. 
But mostly, I remember Julianne. 
I miss you so much. 
Not just for my family, but for me. 
But at night. 
At night, I cry. 
Mrs. 
She gave him a nasty look scarring the poor man. 
She smiled maliciously. 
Madam. 
In its center was a knocker in the shape of Mrs. 
Mrs. 
Madam. 
refuge. 
I thought of other things, of home. 
Yes, music! 
It probably looked a little funny, me lying there humming, him trying to talk to me. 
I heard scrawling on a notebook, and he said, "Interesting. 
He said this with a sort of astonishment, as if by me singing, I'd prevented something previously... 
He'd had to have been planning this" had to have known I would have reacted the way I did. 
Nothing was at stake for them. 
I had no safe refuge. 
band geek 2008-11-10T22:25:54Z ID: 45828 Prequels: 45827 Sequels: 45831 Karon was still writing down notes, scratching the pencil heavily in the notebook. 
he muttered. 
Before I fell asleep, my door clicked open again and Theo walked inside, asking, "Are you okay?"? 
When I woke up, Theo was still there. 
he asked, rushing over to my bed. 
I still had a killer headache. 
"Five thirty. 
What are you talking about?!"? 
oh, God, Theo. 
I asked. 
I thought something bad had happened."? 
I would soon find out. 
This was like my dream. 
To be honest, I didnt really care. 
I was programmed to be scared. 
The wind blew smoothly over my face as I dropped my bike to the ground and lifted my face to the pure white clouds above me. 
Not any of that Gianna nonsense. 
Just to live. 
I had entered another world. 
music. 
Your room is so empty, no windows" can we go to my room instead?"? 
"Come on, you can sleep in there."? 
"I don't know, I just" I don't feel safe. 
You're the only one who thinks like I do, who understands this at all."? 
Somebody was sitting in the room, beating his hands against a book to the rhythm of the song. 
I sat down on it, and curled up against his pillow, listening to the song. 
tests. 
"Can you play that again?"? 
"I lost the station,"? 
"Oh."? 
It was a little annoying, but soon, I was asleep again. 
"Time to get up. 
He laughed. 
"Shut up!"? 
"Not hungry."? 
Well, I am. 
I heard him shuffle out of the room, followed by his roommate. 
"How was your nap?"? 
"Please leave me alone."? 
"?Doctor Karon pulled something out of his pocket and turned it on with a click. 
He pointed the little flashlight, at least, that's what I thought it was, into both of my eyes, then checked my ears. 
need. 
he asked. 
I had no idea what he was even doing. 
Now?"? 
"How about now?"? 
shouted Theo, storming in through the doorway. 
Theodore, goodnight."? 
"You didn't feel any of that?"? 
a needle or something, I think. 
"No, I didn't feel anything."? 
"If I'd stayed, he wouldn't have" done it."? 
It didn't hurt" which is weird, but there's nothing to be sorry about. 
I sighed. 
If he "needs' to do something, he's going to do it, as much as I don't want him to. 
He smiled down at me sweetly but I gaped in horror. 
Yet he was smiling. 
I whispered to him and his smiled widened. 
I saw you in Robert's car and so I came to the rescue. 
"Us is just how I like it."? 
"It's all going to be okay, Grace. 
For now though, I'm content right here in his arms, far away from Robert. 
Gabriel 2008-11-10T22:59:59Z ID: 45835 Prequels: 45803 Sequels: 45837 Having an amazing time was no problem, considering the fact that Jared and I had a lot in common. 
He later messaged me asking if I had fun and all that day. 
Plus, I just met him right? 
He messaged me again, asking to hang out with me again. 
He messaged back seeming... 
Ah hell, I muttered, sparing only a glance for my robotic arm. 
Staring out at the open fields I realized it was possible to be free. 
The wind insisted on punching me in the face, so I punched it back, screaming: Hoooo yeeeaaaaaahh! I leaped in the air and landed on my feet, grinning. 
I couldnt hold it in! 
I grabbed my bike and ran next to it, whooping and hollering. 
My super fast reflexes could do that. 
And I was flying. 
I didnt know where I was going but I was moving forward. 
Obsession: Growing Mr. 
We could hang out any other day, couldnt we? 
I was beyond confused. 
I slept great that night, loving the town of Marzark. 
In homeroom, he and i were surrounded by conversations in all directions. 
After school, me and the group I was with lounged at the the local cafe(which was conviently named Marz Cafe). 
She made me laugh, and so did everyone else. 
He was pretty nice to me yesterday on my first day. 
More Reasons to Love Life Demosthenes 2008-11-10T23:33:28Z ID: 45838 Prequels: 45822 Sequels: 45848 The extent of love can never be reached... 
Setting records. 
WIN SOME . 
Defeat. 
A good romp in the park with your dog! 
Window shopping. 
Finding a quarter on the ground...IM RICH !! 
Cest la vie! Lullabies. 
The innocence of youth. 
Wikipedia saves my life everyday! 
The sunll come out tomorrow! 
The 11 oclock news. 
Building a snow-man. 
Hot chocolate. 
Heating. 
Tanning on the beach. 
AND REMEMBER : The sun doesnt go away just because its a cloudy day! 
He had been attacked by people that were looking for someone named Owen. 
He was gone, and there wasnt anything she could do about it. 
He had beenteaching her tai kwon do, so she could learn more self defense. 
She sat, her face buried in her knees, tucked up close to her chest, when she heard footsteps, running footsteps actually. 
You have been idling in her foyer for the past three minutes while you find excuses to not say goodbye to one another. 
After promising to spend the rest of the day praying to the Patron Saint of Lost Things you optimistically remind her that at least she has one earring left. 
You're Not The Only One Mackizme 2008-11-10T23:42:15Z ID: 45841 Prequels: 45839 Sequels: 45842 "Who"?"? 
She climbed up to a clearing in the branches to get a better view of what was happening. 
He was running insanely quickly from two men, probably around their mid thirties. 
She could tell they were armed by the way their clothes moved over places like their ankles or their chests. 
She climbed down from the tree, using her stealth power to get next to the boy, running into step with him. 
"Whats going on?"? 
The boy exclaimed, amazed that she could keep up. 
Giving Them The Slip Demosthenes 2008-11-10T23:44:33Z ID: 45842 Prequels: 45841 Sequels: 45843 "So why are they chasing you?"? 
"How should I know?!"? 
I ran for it and they've been following me since then,"? 
"Well why don't we give them a slip,"? 
They both disappeared, veering invisibly off to the left. 
Walking would appear as running, when traveling in the mirror realm, that is, if anyone in the real world was able to see them. 
"So, who are you?"? 
He asked. 
She looked over at the two thugs, moving in slow motion. 
She called over to Owen who was still standing where they had stopped. 
Owen said, disappearing and reappearing in the real world. 
"So... 
she asked politely. 
"Yeah they never caught me,"? 
He took a deep breath and looked at her. 
he said tentatively. 
Melody asked "The ability to be able to go into that mirror realm... 
...That. "Oh, then yeah, I guess,"? 
She'd known she had these powers all her life, but she didn't know they had names. 
she spoke again. 
I've got a hotel room up at the Montier."? 
After a moment he agreed. 
Melody said, and the two returned to the mirror realm again, setting off for her apartment. 
They didn't want to cause a scene by just popping up out of thin air in the middle of the city. 
The Third Floor Demosthenes 2008-11-11T00:01:51Z ID: 45845 Prequels: 45844 Sequels: none "Ahhh Melody, you're back, with a friend?"? 
She replied. 
Greyhem was one of the very few people who knew who she really was. 
Leah knew about Melody's powers, as did Mr. 
Mr. 
"Well you already know my name"? 
Greyhem's hand. 
Melody said quickly, as she and Owen walked to the elevator. 
Being a fan of the American TV show MythBusters, he let his students participate in physical experiments that supported the core concepts of the theoretical treatise he taught. 
It functioned like a Spinning Wheel, twisting fibers of time space and folding them on a molecular level to create what he called Newmatter. Tonight would determine once and for all if this myth was plausible or busted. 
"I reject your reality and substitute it for my own."? 
Inspiration from Failure (or, A Research Trailer) [WITRSF2BYTC... 
All ten pages!That is, if her computer will cooperate. 
With g2 (la pianista irlandesa), Mark Twain, and countless reference sources comes an epic journey abound with textual and parenthetical citations...Inspiration From FailureLimited Engagement begins Nov. 
Love! 
Thyme Passing 2008-11-11T09:58:40Z ID: 45848 Prequels: 45838 Sequels: 45850 Flannel blankets. 
A funny-looking gift from your little sister that you keep anyway. 
Counting down with the microwave and making the funny beeping noise at the end, and then laughing hysterically. 
Milkweed seeds blowing on the wind. 
Learning an obscure word and wanting to use it every opportunity you get. 
Commendable effort! 
Ticking off the robot on AIM . 
Someone elses birthday party. 
Colorful glass lamps that make designs on the ceiling. 
Looking at all the pretty ornaments in a gift shop and hoping feverently that you dont knock something over. 
May. 
Oops. 
Im just, uh, going upstairs now! I shouted through to her as I rested my bike more carefully against the metal bars. 
Come here, please. Dammit. 
The jail-like features suddenly changed to be more comfortable and homey. 
Heaven above, she was good. 
Adelle, with her usual soft glances and gentle demeaner, now looked angry. 
She tugged at her robe and played with a string of her curly hair. 
And, of course, there was the one, the only, Gianna. 
Well, actually, it might be a clone. 
Gianna simply stared at me. 
Her voice sounded strange. 
Listen! Adelles hazel eyes bored into me. 
What was going on? 
Passing notes when the teacher isnt paying attention. 
Band concerts! 
Catching snowflakes on your tongue and watching them melt. 
BEAUTY . 
LOVING YOURSELF . 
Knowing that the weather man predicted rain, but going outside anyways, and finding its impeccably sunny the whole day. 
Getting to a new level of a video game. 
Hearing a cat purr. 
Wrapping a present and using as much tape as you want, even it that may be the whole roll. 
SLEEPING . 
LAVENDER . 
He was wearing much what I had been wearing just a moment ago. 
I lifted my hand in a pathetic little wave. 
Whats your name? I think thats the question I should be asking you. I retaliated. 
The kid was sharp. 
I am Maisie Beatrice Hampton, and Ive come to see my grandmother. 
Wait. As soon as he disappeared my back slumped. 
How was I supposed to get past this body guard? 
Hm... He tapped his pencil on it. 
Harrisford, Virginia... 
Kiddo? 
Its Marie. I looked up at him. 
Fallen Angel Thyme Passing 2008-11-11T10:26:25Z ID: 45852 Prequels: none Sequels: 45853 It was as bleak as a day could get, the day the angel fell from the heavens. 
The ground was littered with shriveled leaves that occasionally were lifted by the wind to travel several feet before dropping back to the dull grass. 
But as it descended, it grew larger. 
No, all the geese had left for the winter, and it was too large now. 
An eagle? 
No, it was too large, and its wings werent open. 
The creature was the flapping wildly, trying to regain flight, but it still fell, falling, falling, down to earth. 
It sounded like a hawks cry, it did. 
It was an angel! 
Its big brown wings were twisted, and it was horribly cut from where it crashed into the tree, and yet its crashing into the tree very well might have saved its life, for the tree slowed its fall enough so that when it fell out of the tree, it was not hurt as badly as it would have been if it had landed on the cold, hard ground first. 
It was moaning, and occasionally it uttered a lamenting phrase in some incomprehensible language, and tears ran down its face. 
I knelt beside it, not sure if I should move it inside, or if moving it might just injure it more. 
The Bonesetter would know what to do. 
The Bonesetter lived not far away from my house, in a once-colorful gypsy caravan where he did his work. 
Breathless, I arrived at the caravan door, and knocked sharply upon it. 
Its hurt. I dont treat animals, he said, starting to close the door. 
Its an angel. Awakening Thyme Passing 2008-11-11T12:30:04Z ID: 45855 Prequels: 45854 Sequels: 46178 It had been two days since the angel fell. 
The angels eyes fluttered opened, a startling green. 
The angel murmured and clacked something to itself in its soft, precise language, and stroked the cat with its unbroken hand, smiling. 
Good morning, I said, with not a little amount of awe. 
It said something in its language that I could not understand.I dont understand, I said. 
It murmured a few more things to itself, in various languages, and then chanced upon English.I am so sorry, it said, and I saw tears in its green eyes. 
The rose quartz stone heart was just the size of her thumb print, and the gold ring circled it beautifully. 
She always held it when she was nervous. 
Her amber colored hair was pulled up into a high, upswept bun, and she pushed back one of her escaping curls. 
Zen, a large, muscular man in a loose robe stood in the crowd. 
Its madness! 
Morbi commodo, ipsum sed pharetra gravida, orci magna rhoncus neque, id pulvinar odio lorem non turpis. 
Suspendisse id velit vitae ligula volutpat condimentum. 
Sed quis velit. 
Nulla libero. 
Donec porttitor ligula eu dolor. 
Nam magna enim, accumsan eu, blandit sed, blandit a, eros. 
Nam malesuada ornare dolor. 
Fusce et ipsum et nulla tristique facilisis. 
Impatiently he thrust away the covers and sat up, his legs dangling over the side of the bed. 
Sariah was missing. 
She hadnt been at her bedroom window all evening. 
Always. 
They must suspect foul play. 
Had anyone looked? 
He knew what he would do, how he would help. 
Without a second thought he was out the back door and to the woods, a one man search party. 
He knew the paths. 
Spilling penguincaptain18 2008-11-11T14:26:47Z ID: 45859 Prequels: 45810 Sequels: 45862 He took a deep breath. 
Janice... Another deep breath. 
She wonder if he could hear her heart racing. 
No ones ever been as ridiculously perfect as you. 
I dont know how all the other girls stand to be around such an exquisite being. 
They have to. 
Id completely give up hope of ever having a boyfriend with you around. 
So Im REALLY glad Im not a girl. Kyle paused for a breath, Janice couldnt catch hers. 
he wondered. 
This was not the first time his home was simulated around him. 
On the contrary... 
Whats going on here, Adelle? he said and gave her his most disappointed, disapproving gaze. 
Fame! 
Gianna is so good to you! She seemed not to realize that the Gianna standing with them was just a hologram. 
She looked confused at first, then embarrassed, and finally ashamed. 
They took our families and separated them, our possessions and plundered them, and our hearts and broke them. 
The plan was of my weaving. 
What could a human do against a giant? 
They never guessed my treachery! 
I was subtle and sly. 
The man doubted his wife, and the woman questioned her son. 
Soldiers plundered the homes of their own people, and the people rebelled. 
It burned, and as it burned, we made our escape,and fled. 
Mile-a-minute, Giant Run-on Talker penguincaptain18 2008-11-11T14:39:15Z ID: 45862 Prequels: 45859 Sequels: 46056 I dont know how it is that you dont have a boyfriend. 
But then I think, it does make sense because shed never like that, he was really picking up the pace now, Shes not the type that goes around fluanting what shes got and taking advantage, which makes you even perfecter. 
She shouldnt rule my life. 
I know you think Im being horrible, but Im not. She was acting defiant. 
I think thats for me to decide. She recoiled, stung. 
I just want to protect you. She was wheedling now. 
Which she probably was. 
Listen, Adelle. 
I know all I need to know. 
Oh, sure, Adelle. 
Whatever I say. Determination Mackizme 2008-11-11T14:42:36Z ID: 45864 Prequels: 45716 Sequels: 45865 Todd stands there for a few minutes after she leaves, breathing hard, wondering what the hell he is going to do next. 
Dammit, what is Tom up to? 
Jim, he says quickly. 
He has been observing the whole scene and disapproves of how Todd has been acting. 
To put it bluntly... 
Todd nods to himself, thinking. 
Tom always was a jealous prick, he splutters, his face displaying cold rage. 
Thats a little harsh, boy, dontcha think? Im not a boy! Todd snaps. 
Todd is also looking around but he cant see anything but a ball-point pen thats been crushed. 
Jim eyes Todd carefully, then asks. 
Im fine. 
Hes waiting for a thank you or some kind of acknowledgment of his help. 
Angry, Jim says, Fine. 
Five Girls, Two Enemies lovinglife307 2008-11-11T15:03:25Z ID: 45866 Prequels: none Sequels: none One, two, three... 
Oh my god. Harper stared down at her bent over stomach, where three miniscule rolls of fat had appeared. 
Youre a size two. I stretched out over my bed, twirling a dark lock of hair on my finger. 
It was only expected. 
Here we go, luvs. Emilie plopped the sodas down on the bedside table. 
Where have you been? Emilie plopped down on the couch, pulling a down pillow onto her lap. 
I got here as soon as I could. Demis hair was wind blown, and her nose was pink. 
I frowned. 
Oh, um, hi Bella. I smirked. 
He gasps as the cold seeps through his clothes. 
Oooooo, he groans, shifting on the cold ground. 
He can hear the sound of nearby cars driving by and he lifts an arm uselessly. 
His leg aches terribly. 
Tom pulls off his gloves and stares at his red hands in shock. 
As a last desperate hope he shoves his hands under his armpits. 
Never seen her before... Who, the redhead? 
Did she wander down here by accident? 
Shes the new recruit. Her?! 
No, you listen. 
She catches on quickly, see? 
No one could crack it for months. She wasnt here a day before she figured it out. 
Gabriel 2008-11-11T15:56:41Z ID: 45870 Prequels: 45837 Sequels: 45954 My heart skipped a beat in horror. 
Pure coincidence could be an explanation, and it sounded like a good one, so I went with that and waved at him. 
Jared and I hung out almost everyday, and he was making me popular. 
I picked up my phone and looked at my recent call list to see if anyone would hang out today. 
A few outgoing.. 
It was a text from Jared. 
His eyes are frozen closed, and he moans softly at the touch. 
He can occasionally make out some voices, but only snippets of conversation. 
....in the truck....hurt.......needs heat.... ....him home... I know! This last comment is louder than the rest and his eyes flutter open and catch a glimpse of a girl....a beautiful girl. 
Someone is rubbing his arms with soapy hands. 
The light is bright. 
Tom is astonished to find himself sitting in a white porcelain bathtub. 
No. 
All at once the realization comes, and then he hears a voice speak into his ear from behind. 
He is very aware that her breasts are pressed against his back. 
She grips him by the waist and hoists him back toward her. 
She squeezes it, and with the other hand begins to explore his thighs and the space between. 
and he fell in love. 
1 Stovohobo 2008-11-11T16:30:05Z ID: 45873 Prequels: 45759 Sequels: 45884 A few more hours crept by, one by one, with nothing happening. 
Finally, a noise came through and broke the silence. 
My fingers felt cold stone underneath them. 
Tiled marble floor lay underneath me. 
Wants a letter about Spear. 
Comes up for sentence Tuesday. Spear? repeated Arnold Thorndike. 
I remember. 
Went on the loose; had with him about five hundred dollars belonging to the firm; hes with Isaacs & Sons now, shoe people on Sixth Avenue. 
The next morning he offered to make good, but Isaacs called in a policeman. 
They tried to withdraw the charge, but hed been committed. 
A letter from you, sir, would It was evident the mind of the great man was elsewhere. 
It was undoubtedly genuine, and he asked to be instructed by cable. 
With one eye closed, and the other keenly regarding the inkstand, Mr. 
The secretary withdrew the letter, and slipped another in its place. 
Says it will run to about five thousand dollars a mile. No! protested the great man firmly, blue flint makes a country place look like a cemetery. 
I like his taking flowers to his mother. He SAID it was to his mother, suggested the secretary gloomily. 
Thorndike. 
And he had the run of the house in those days. 
Dont say more than that. The secretary scribbled a mark with his pencil. 
But his busy mind was not too occupied to return the salutes of the traffic policemen who cleared the way for him. 
Mr. 
He regretted he had not given the probation officer a stronger letter. 
A shy, silent youth, deft in work, and at other times conscious and embarrassed. 
The hood of the car was down, and the taste of the air, warmed by the sun, was grateful. 
A year from now where would young Spear be? 
It was these same impulses, leading so invariably to success, that made his enemies call him the Wisest Man. 
Stop at the Court of General Sessions, he commanded. 
A word, a personal word from him to the district attorney, or the judge, would be enough. 
At that rate, keeping Spear out of prison would cost a thousand dollars. 
A policeman, chewing stolidly, nodded toward an elevator shaft, and other policemen nodded him further on to the office of the district attorney. 
He was again among his own people. 
He knew he could not escape recognition, his face was too well known, but, he trusted, for the sake of Spear, the reporters would make no display of his visit. 
But the outburst of approbation he had anticipated did not follow. 
"Henry Spear, he exclaimed, thats your man. 
Andrews is in that court. He walked to the door of his private office. 
He introduced an alert, broad-shouldered young man of years of much indiscretion and with a charming and inconsequent manner. 
Take him over with you. The district attorney shook hands quickly, and retreated to his private office. 
Andrews took out a cigarette and, as he crossed the floor, lit it. 
Somewhat puzzled, slightly annoyed, but enjoying withal the novelty of the environment and the curtness of his reception, Mr. 
He decided that, in his ignorance, he had wasted his own time and that of the prosecuting attorney. 
As he understood it, Mr. 
There were people waiting in the room; strange people, only like those Mr. 
They leaned forward toward young Mr. 
Mr. 
Judge is always late, anyway. Mr. 
He wanted to protest, but his clear mind showed him that there was nothing against which, with reason, he could protest. 
He had precipitated himself into a game of which he did not know the rules. 
Next time he would know better. 
But he was not without a sense of humor, and the situation as it now was forced upon him struck him as amusing. 
He explained he would be a few minutes late. 
He gave rapid orders on many different matters, asked to have read to him a cablegram he expected from Petersburg, and one from Vienna. 
It looks like peace. Mr. 
Now he turned upon his visitors. 
Young Mr. 
You gotta hell of a nerve to come to see me, he commented cheerfully. 
Thorndike, the form of greeting was novel. 
Was it you, demanded young Andrews, in a puzzled tone, or your brother who tried to knife me? Mr. 
The hand of the banker went vaguely to his chin, and from there fell to his pearl pin, which he hastily covered. 
Young Andrews swung his swivel chair so that, over his shoulder, he could see Mr. 
I HOPE so! 
That son of yours, Mrs. 
Thorndike. 
From the secure and lofty heights of motherhood, Mrs. 
She did not even deign a protest. 
The smile reminded Thorndike of the smile on the face of a mother in a painting by Murillo he had lately presented to the chapel in the college he had given to his native town. 
Hes robbed you, robbed his wife. 
Could you give me a pass? she said. 
Isnt that just like a mother? he protested. 
And Ill bet shes got a cake for him in that basket! The mother laughed happily; she knew now she would get the pass. 
Thorndike bowed his head politely. 
Apparently there were many aspects and accidents of life not included in his experience. 
Their looks were anxious, furtive, miserable. 
At a door a tipstaff laid his hand roughly on the arm of Mr. 
Again, in his effort to follow, Mr. 
All right, he signalled, hes with Mr. 
Youre with ME. Distinctly annoyed, slightly bewildered, the banker sank between the arms of a chair. 
Andrews had become his sponsor. 
Because Andrews had a pull he was permitted to sit as an equal among police-court lawyers. 
The judgell be here in a minute, now, said the assistant district attorney, and went inside a railed enclosure in front of the judges bench. 
Andrews. 
To Mr. 
He arose, and touched his sleeve. 
The court attendant droned loudly words Mr. 
There was a rustle of silk, and from a door behind him the judge stalked past. 
On his shrewd, alert, Irish-American features was an expression of unnatural gloom. 
Thorndike observed that it was as little suited to the countenance of the young judge as was the robe to his shoulders. 
Thorndike was still smiling when young Andrews leaned over the rail. 
Mr. 
The banker had not believed the young man could look so serious. 
Youve got to wait till your man comes up. 
Not knowing in what way he had offended, but convinced that it was only by the grace of Andrews he had escaped a dungeon, Mr. 
The clock on the wall showed him that, already, he had given to young Spear one hour and a quarter. 
No one better than himself knew what his time was really worth. 
And the one man who could answer them was risking untold sums only that he might say a good word for an idle apprentice. 
He assured his honor that he must have more time to prepare his case. 
The name of a most respectable business house was involved, and a sum of no less than nine hundred dollars. 
The contrast struck Mr. 
Unknowingly, he laughed, and found himself as conspicuous as though he had appeared suddenly in his night-clothes. 
Those persons, he said, who cannot respect the dignity of this court will leave it. As he spoke, with his eyes fixed on those of Mr. 
Thorndike, and grinned sympathetically. 
Should have warned you. 
As soon as this fellow finishes his argument, the judgell take up the sentences. 
It wont be more than a couple of hours now. A couple of hours! Mr. 
A couple of hours in this place where he had been publicly humiliated. 
Those who made it their business to study his expressions, on seeing it, would have fled. 
Thorndike began grimly to pull on his gloves. 
Andrews nudged his elbow. 
Thats Mrs. 
What did I tell you; mothers are all alike. 
She knows youre her one best bet. Impatiently Mr. 
And here come the prisoners, Andrews whispered. 
Third man from the last. A long line, guarded in front and rear, shuffled into the court-room, and, as ordered, ranged themselves against the wall. 
Spear, his head hanging, with lips white and cheeks ashen, and his eyes heavy with shame. 
At the sight of the great man, Spear flushed crimson, and then his look of despair slowly disappeared; and into his eyes there came incredulously hope and gratitude. 
Austin says, continued the district attorney, shes looked into this case, and asks to have the man turned over to her. 
A thin, washed-out, pretty woman stood up, and clasped her hands in front of her. 
The woman broke into vehement assurances. 
Would she take him back? 
She held out her hands as though she would physically drag her husband from the pillory. 
Part Two Other men followed, and in the fortune of each Mr. 
Only these actors were appearing in their proper persons in real dramas of a life he did not know, but which appealed to something that had been long untouched, long in disuse. 
He found this, partially, in praising, through Andrews, the young judge who had publicly rebuked him. 
Thorndike found him astute, sane; his queries intelligent, his comments just. 
Like her clear eyes and clean skin. 
These men when they come under her charge, he insisted, eagerly, need money to start again, dont they? He spoke anxiously. 
It was a desire to help; to be of use to these failures who had fallen and who were being lifted to their feet. 
Anything you give her, he answered, would be well invested. If you will tell me her name and address? whispered the banker. 
In helping here, he felt a genial glow of personal pleasure. 
Thorndike. 
Ill see what it is. 
Thorndike pulled him back. 
But I cant see him now, Im busy. Slowly the long line of derelicts, of birds of prey, of sorry, weak failures, passed before the seat of judgment. 
Behind him stood a younger man, a more modern edition of the other. 
The judge nodded, and leaning forward, for a few moments fixed his eyes upon the prisoner. 
He laid his hand upon a pile of letters. 
These letters speak for you; your employers, whom you robbed, have pleaded with me in your favor. 
In the eyes of the law, that is no excuse. 
It appears you can not. 
Therefore, you must not drink. 
Andrews. 
Spear was free, and from different parts of the courtroom people were moving toward the door. 
Mr. 
Even though the result relieved and pleased him, he wished, in bringing it about, he had had some part. 
His morning had been wasted. 
The speech was about public-spirited citizens who, to the neglect of their own interests, came to assist the ends of justice, and fellow-creatures in misfortune. 
The law, Mr. 
It wishes only to be just. 
But when there is good in a man, I, personally, want to know it, and when gentlemen like yourself, of your standing in this city, come here to speak a good word for a man, we would stultify the purpose of justice if we did not listen. 
Thorndike glowed with pleasure. 
From the friends of Spear there was a ripple of applause, which no tipstaff took it upon himself to suppress, and to the accompaniment of this, Mr. 
He was pleased with himself and with his fellow-men. 
And then he saw Spear standing apart regarding him doubtfully. 
Thorndike took it, and shook it, and said: I want to meet your mother. And when Mrs. 
And she remembered it, too, and thanked him for the flowers. 
And Isaacs & Sons were delighted at the great mans pleasantry, and afterward repeated it many times, calling upon each other to bear witness, and Spear felt as though some one had given him a new backbone, and Andrews, who was guiding Thorndike out of the building, was thinking to himself what a great confidence man had been lost when Thorndike became a banker. 
They pounced upon the banker and almost lifted him into the car. 
There is not! answered Mr. 
His tone was rebellious, defiant. 
Ive wasted most of this day, he declared, and I intend to waste the rest of it. 
Wait till I get my hat! he called. 
Andrews laughed aloud. 
Thorndike raised his eyebrows inquiringly. 
This work is hereby released into the Public Domain. 
Captured Moments by Will Shetterly I remember Papa's stopbox, a teal blue Tiempo Capturado that Mama brought home for his birthday. 
Sometimes they would let us little ones to seal a treasured toy or a last piece of birthday cake until we begged them for its release, usually a few hours after enclosing it. 
We found our baby shoes protected in stopboxes. 
One night when I did not believe love had ever existed for anyone, I used my own capturador, a sleek titanium Sanyo Tardar Ahora, to undo the stopbox. 
The instant would have been improved had my baby shoes been cleaned before they were encased. 
Last year, I rented a small house on Vega IV, a sea world, all islands and reefs and archipelagos, turquoise waters and aquamarine skies, sunrises like symphonies and sunsets like stars gone supernova. 
The N'apulcans are mostly emigrants from Polaris II; the only difference between them and their Carribbean ancestors is that the ancestors fleeced NorAm tourists. 
I don't mean to sound cynical. 
The following events may indicate otherwise. 
The rental agent, an attractive N'apulcan named Tasha Cortez, was not mood-sensitive either. 
But she was young and attractive (as I have said and may say again) and eager and so happy to be assisting the infamous Bernardo Flynn that I merely raised an eyebrow in mild scepticism. 
She caught herself, slid her jaw infinitesimally back into place, and said, "You don't like it?" I laughed. 
I clapped her shoulder to show I was not laughing at her. 
I should buy it to raze it, but I am not so kind-hearted. 
"You will?" "It amuses me. 
Not even Los Mundos is so polite. 
I stared. 
"Worse?" I nodded. 
"It is rather ugly." "Thoroughly ugly," I corrected with smile. 
"Don't you dare!" Her wrist, when I grabbed it, was smooth and strong and warm in my fingers. 
The interior of The Flamingo was a welcome surprise. 
The kitchen and baths had every convenience that I desired. 
My heart convulsed, and I left this manuscript for a three-day spree. 
Not bad for an eighty-three-year-old, even for one who has his rejuve every month. 
No. 
My mindsmith is not so understanding. 
Why else would I come to you?" This logic does not soothe her; she says I must wait three weeks. 
Such is the law. 
Enough. 
I hope the wipe is as successful with my time on Vega IV as my spree was with my time here. 
I will not answer the phone for a week, no matter whose face appears on it. 
But which issue? 
To deal with the first: it hurts to remember. 
The sufferer says no, only those which cause no pain. 
Is that love? 
You loved her. 
The Tasha in this file is not even the Tasha I loved and thought I knew. 
I must also write about Emiliano Gabriel Malaquez. 
Not another spree --at least, not like the other. 
I want to pick up with Tasha and me walking about The Sleeping Flamingo, and then, for the sake of literary convenience, to say that from a corner of the yard I saw a neighboring house, and the sight filled me with darkest forebodings. 
"Who lives there?" I asked. 
Truth is always more boring than fiction. 
how does one speak to one's future self? 
I do not plan to write a book: this narrative must move more quickly. 
I made some small joke afterward, about approving of her firm's business incentives, and she cried. 
I moved into The Flamingo the next day; and she gave up her apartment three weeks later to join me. 
(Which is to say, you and me, Future Self.) Who was Tasha Cortez? 
Her family said she did it to support her father, who was dying of a particularly painful degenerative disease. 
She did not like my plays. 
That bothered (yes, and intrigued) me until I realized that she was bored by most plays, movies, and vid. 
I often told her that she should have a bio-check to see if she suffered from some metabolic imbalance. 
Moreover, he never did portraits of famous people; his works were therefore the reality and could never be compared to it. 
The shimmer of light on their surfaces always reminds us that we're looking at an instant snatched from under the hooves of time. 
Yes, Self, I am also bothered that this observation ignores half-eaten cheese sandwiches, incomplete insect collections, and locks of infants' hair, forgotten in closets, basements, and warehouses. 
The play's second act concludes with the last fight between Tasha and me. 
Now I will mention it, in case I/You decide to restore it. 
Nardo! 
"You wish to become pregnant? 
Especially when someone thinks me shockingly ignorant. 
The child's face was a warground for wonder and mistrust. 
The stars themselves might have fallen on the Undersider and the event would have been no less strange, no less miraculous. 
"Well. 
If I thought he could free me from you --" "Hah!" She wrapped her arms around my stomach. 
Wondering about the reason for her extravagance, I asked how work had gone that day. 
He's taking Dream's End." "Emil?" "You've no memory left, old one. 
You did that to test my affections." "What?" "Calling him by his first name. 
We lunched together. 
I do not claim ours was a perfect affair, only a wonderful one. 
I invited him to dinner tomorrow." "Oh?" "He'll be our neighbor. 
But knowing this did not mean I wanted it. 
She screamed, "I haven't socialized with Terra's elite for most of my life! 
And I invite a neighbor, one nice, lonely man --" "I'm sorry." " --who took me to -- What?" "I'm sorry. 
Instead, I asked, "Is he handsome?" "You're jealous." "A tiny bit. 
It's the reverse of you with those ridiculous stomach muscles. 
I'll eat two dinners tonight. 
Who said that those who forget the past are doomed to repeat it? 
Add this to the reasons I write now: to remember something, perhaps even to learn -- Emil Malaquez arrived after sundown, carrying a small package wrapped in what looked like real paper. 
He was a jovial man with an easy laugh, and even uglier than Tasha had suggested. 
"Seor Malaquez?" "Please. 
"Has she said as much about me?" "She thinks you are a genius. 
"Emil!" She leapt up. 
It's unforgiveable, but you're forgiven." She nodded at the package. 
I stopped writing, and only the thought that I might miss the mindwipe kept me from another spree. 
Perhaps they recognized a fellow ghost. 
The side of Malaquez's parcel gave way to reveal a greenmunk caught in a sheen of solid air. 
Tasha oohed in awe. 
He lives around here somewhere. 
"Why 'Frodo'?" Tasha said, "A little fellow with big, furry feet. 
I almost dropped it; I expected it to weigh no more than a holo. 
Be glad someone didn't toss that to you." He spoke of his art with the enthusiasm of a seven-year-old. 
"A confession, and then a request. 
It's not easy for me to ask a favor." "Relax," I said. 
The surprising thing is that I was. 
My last show --" " --was glorious!" Tasha said. 
"But an artist who would stay first among his fellows can tell when he begins to fail." "Oh?" I hoped no one would bring up my last three plays. 
No more urchins, dopers, vagrants, or whores. 
"Would you permit me to do one of you? 
"Ah." He shrugged lightly. 
Oh! 
"And you as well? 
Catching herself, she said casually, "Oh..." And then she smiled, laughed loudly at herself in the way that always made me think how much I loved her, and said, "My God, yes, yes, yes!" For a perfect moment, Emil and Tasha and I were one entity, laughing until our lungs hurt. 
I had not considered that I might not write to learn, but to punish myself. 
Then we went out for a late swim. 
I once had a neighbor who played it constantly, loudly, and badly, so I thought I knew it better. 
So, I think, did she. 
She had no choice but to follow. 
Those who are truly curious may look at the last act of "Captured Moments.") I remember suggesting, with characteristic tact, that she add Emil to her small list of major accomplishments. 
Tasha looked at me as if to say, "I will." She said, "I feel sorry for you, Nardo. 
Emil asked, "You're all right?" I muttered something he must have interpreted as assent. 
I waited, and drank a glass of MorningAfter and three cups of coffee, and wondered whether our affair could survive the events of the night, and whether I wanted it to. 
Malaquez answered the door in blood-red pajamas and a black silk robe. 
I merely said, "Is Tasha here?" He pursed his lips slightly, then nodded. 
I hold it against neither of you. 
Let me talk to her." "I --" "Please." He looked me and at last said, "Very well." We walked through his house in silence. 
A tall, narrow stopbox stood in the center of one room; sand trickled forever downward while beads of water splashed across the sand's path. 
But then, I was in no mood to consider art. 
That was easier than despising myself. 
"I should go in first. 
"She handles surprise surprisingly well." "What would it hurt?" "True. 
Tell her..." I shrugged. 
I didn't anticipate last night --" "I'm very good at making things happen this way. 
I waited in the dark, carpeted hall. 
She was looking slightly to my left, smiling with trust and satisfaction like one sexually content. 
Though the morning sun shone fully on both of them, it shimmered around Tasha. 
Malaquez was not prepared for me to react so quickly, or perhaps he waited too long for an expression I would not have, a gesture I would not make, a poignant moment of repentence, wonder, despair, or love. 
I threw a chair at him. 
I shouted, "Where is she? 
I hit him with the back of my hand. 
She did! 
Our boat would disappear into the ocean to be found or not as the wind and tides chose. 
I wanted him to tell me more, but he babbled, begging me to forgive him, to understand. 
I took the capturador, a matte black Tiempo Capturado, from his grip and studied it, not really thinking about it or Malaquez or Tasha. 
Or perhaps I was thinking about the things that humanity made that would outlive our species. 
Had he said then that I should use it on myself, I might have. 
I looked at Malaquez. 
She smiled in trust or pleasure or pride, an erotic Mona Lisa who would smile forever, and I could never know why. 
I could free Tasha. 
Most likely: she would be meat --there is a reason why stopboxes are most often used in kitchens. 
And the tiniest chance of all: she would blink as if I had just materialized in Emil's bedroom, and then she would laugh and tell me that she was going to be immortal. 
And Tasha? 
But I cannot stop thinking that I was never afraid of losing Tasha to brain damage or death. 
>Hotel California Fact: Sound is a vibration. 
Eyes bulging in panic, but no screams. 
Such a relief to never again hear my crewmate Jesse natter about his girl back on Earth and that all-expenses-paid vacation-for-two she won last time he was on leave. 
Metaphorically, of course. 
This is more than the person would have sans space suit. 
About the time I was composing my last words in my head, trying not to think too much about what suffocating felt like, that's when I heard a bell. 
Twenty-four hours of silence (vacuum, remember); was I hallucinating noises now? 
It was a fine bell, reminiscent of ancient stone churches and the towering cathedrals I'd seen in documentaries. 
Second, I was floating in the dark remnants of my broken ship, and any conceivable light sources were not within view; starlight is a distinctly different color and significantly less bright. 
The first words they said to me meant nothing. 
Next to those, nothing else mattered. 
(I reserved the right to revise this opinion later.) When I was done mentally exclaiming over my impossible rescue, I looked around. 
And me, I guess I was one more piece in their puzzle. 
I was now one of them. 
The survivors of the unfortunate accidents, the catastrophic malfunctions, the fateful crashes: this is us. 
Once found, we can never be lost. 
We can never leave. 
You do this a lot? A woman, introduced as Tiffany and neither tall nor beautiful, shrugged. 
You fit the bill. 
She turned to me. 
No time for answers. 
The occasional painting hung on the wall (generic landscapes and portraits of old people no one has ever met, primarily). 
This was heaven. 
Where are we going? I asked. 
What's our destination? Tiffany, she stopped walking. 
Honey, she said, You're going to be delighted. 
Destination nowhere. This was hell. 
Fact: The speed of sound in dry air at twenty degrees Celsius or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit is three hundred and forty-three meters per second, or one thousand one hundred twenty-five feet per second. 
I've heard there are a number of stages of grief and shock; I guess I was working my way through them. 
Initially, I couldn't figure out whyI hadn't requested any be sent. 
The accompanying bottle of wine was a nice touch. 
I spent a lot of time lying on my back on the bed, staring up at the little etched swirls in the ceiling, or slumped in the old-fashioned armchair, staring out the windows at the stars. 
Man, was it good to be done with that stage. 
Fact: Hell is other people. 
We didn't pick up many passengersjust the select, special few, scattered here and there between the stars. 
Cliques form in any decent-sized group of people. 
She sidled up to me as I was scooping little round crackers and what appeared to be a baked cilantro cream dip onto a plate. 
Luxurious, even compared to the fare one would find in the high-class space stations and pleasure cruisers. 
Liking the taste of the sweet life, eh? 
Come on, let's get you a glass of champagne. I looked longingly at the slices of cheddar olive bread as she whisked me over to the bar, but didn't protest. 
It turned toward Sarah's wave and acknowledged her with a nod, moments later setting a fluted glass of sparkling liquid in front of her. 
Clearly, it was a high-end model. 
I spent the evening listening, mostly. 
No one minded; Sarah's inner circle was content to fill our circle of couches with plenty of chatter. 
Zheng, short and dark and lean, with a very intense gaze. 
Kishori, petite, her hair strung out in a series of braids that reached nearly to her waist. 
Most of their chatter was meaningless to mestories of day-to-day activities, how so-and-so had been seen in so-and-so's table at lunch and my wasn't that a surprise, and why hadn't the chef concocted this delectable a selection of appetizers for the dance the other night, but of course those rolled meat pastries reminded one of the pastries back on Earth, didn't they, and this was somehow an interesting fact. 
I wasn't learning anything useful. 
Tonight was for observation. 
They all looked the same: clusters of social butterflies surrounded by the less apt, the hangers-on, the circle with whom the gossip was shared. 
All the fine food and the ornamental lighting, it had to be exorbitantly pricey to maintain. 
How they were all powered was a mysteryas good as the technology got, a quality robot like that was still an energy sink. 
This ship. 
The nagging questions about where the ship had come from and what its purpose in rescuing me was still nagged, but somehow, seemed less urgent. 
Fact: It's easy to fall into patterns. 
I would join the rest of the ship for meals, and I would take my turn in the weight room. 
I did not ask questions. 
I told myself that tonight, the observation period would end and I'd start puzzling out the ship's mystery. 
Bereft of my previous familiar life, I latched onto Kishori and Ray and Zheng, and Sarah with Alexis dragged along on her arm now and then (he was mostly her favorite dancing partner; she confided to us one night that his conversational skills left something to be desired). 
I continued to care little for shipwide gossip, but our discussions of films and flicks, old and new, brought out my artistic, story-loving, argumentative side, a side of me I'd tucked into a back storage compartment during my years as an engineer. 
But I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end. 
Days passed, weeks passed, but I couldn't tell if it had been months or years since I was rescued. 
Gathering for drinks in the parlors, playing dress up with all the fine clothes I found in the closets (some of it modern, some of it period dress for special themed events), idling in the lounges. 
Other faces washed out, fading into the backdrop of carpets and fake glass chandeliers and the muted hum of the engines. 
(The 'South' was in the title to suggest that there were more ballrooms. 
Maybe it was her curiosity, asking a question I should have asked long before, that turned the conversation serious; maybe there was just something special about that evening. 
Regardless, when Adrienne asked what the ship's purpose was, we all gave it a measure of thought. 
I believe we'll see the end of the universe, said Tiffany. 
She swirled it speculatively. 
She tilted her head, listening, not speaking. 
We can't live that long. Maybe the universe will end sooner than you think, said Jefferson. 
He didn't drink, but he made a point of mingling with all the various cliques. 
Maybe we're already traveling at the speed of light. Tiffany, she nodded eagerly. 
We'd just appear to age slower than people not traveling as fast as us. And? said Sarah. 
Besides, I wouldn't mind being around forever. 
Keep their dreams alive. New hypothesis, suggested Kishori, slipping into the conversation. 
In fact, the opposite: We're all going to die. Bleak, commented Zheng. 
Ray took a drink from his glass of ice water, and shook his head. 
All the luxuries money can buy. Tiffany took a drink, thinking. 
Matter-of-fact. 
Think about it, Kishori continued, where else would we get the money to buy all this? Renegade smugglers. 
Jefferson shook his head and stood up. 
A chorus of good nights followed him out the door. 
He set his glass down on an end table, steepled his fingers together. 
And I don't mean that you disgust me. 
Did you hear what the captain said earlier? 
Inside intelligence? 
Me, I followed Adrienne's example and didn't speak up (fabricating excuses to myself to stay safely in gather-info observation mode), though I thought Zheng had a point. 
I guess we all figured, he knew what he was doing. 
What we do, rebelling against the oppression of the many governments that oppose us, we're going to leave a legacy. He sounded certain. 
Ray, he shook his head, and broke the quiet he'd held most of the evening. 
Obviously, we can't last longer than the rest of the universe. 
We're not even going to leave a legacy. 
All we're doing is eating and drinking and shitting, breathing and fucking and nothing important, ever. 
Adrienne gestured for him to be quiet. 
You never know when it will end, Ray continued, not addressing any one of us in particular. 
How long until the memories slip away? 
When your life, the reason you lived, the people and faces and places, the emotions you felt, who and what you loved, when all that is gone, faded, what will you have left? I wondered how long Ray had been on this ship. 
I wanted to ask, but he was still talking, and I was too self-conscious to interrupt. 
You can make their names your mantra. 
We won't care that we're last and we won't care that there are no more stars. 
Leaving your wife, I mean. 
I don't know, he said. 
Silent. 
What's your theory? she asked me. 
How long have you been here? Not that long, I said. 
Maybe a month or two. Why don't you know for sure? she asked. 
I hadn't been counting days. 
How were you found? I was an engineer. I explained how my ship had malfunctioned, no warning at all. 
I don't know how Jefferson knew to find me there. She nodded. 
It was all so fast. She took a sip of her drink, plain water because, she had explained earlier, she had never liked the taste of alcohol, then fixed her gaze on me. 
How and why this ship exists. 
Fact: It's too easy to fall into patterns. 
Another evening, another chandeliered room, another swirl of conversations and dances and hor d'oevres. 
I assumed he was indisposed. Kishori nodded in agreement. 
What? Well, Ray said, slowly, People do leave. 
Zheng shook his head and picked up a handful of candied pecans from a little dish on the end table. 
A couple people staying in their rooms, even if you switch out the people, won't make a difference. He dropped the pecans back into the dish, one by one. 
Kishori chewed her lip. 
I hazarded a guess. 
No one offered a different answer. 
Mission accomplished: Our routine insouciance had been disrupted. 
Even when the conversation returned to lighter tones, as it soon did, I dwelt on Adrienne's questions. 
How long have you been here? The question, previously posed to me, was presented to the rest of our group (excluding Ray; Adrienne had been tactful enough to wait until he had gone for a refill, recalling the last time the subject was broached). 
A long time. 
Time passes in a weird way here. 
I guess I didn't see the point. Fact: Some places are timeless. 
Days don't matter, he said. 
Why are you so interested? she asked Adrienne. 
I don't want to be here forever. But we're not here forever, objected Sarah. 
Alexis left. Disappeared, I corrected her. 
Or where he went. Zheng looked thoughtful. 
He glanced around at the rest of us. 
Could you live anywhere else now? I spoke up. 
I wouldn't miss this, much. No one else said anything. 
Fact: I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end. 
The lightscreen had proved singularly unhelpful. 
There was a schedule advertising upcoming on-ship events, such as dance classes, craft sessions, and discussion groups, and a list of dinner invitations for me to respond to. 
A simple contact system for communicating with other people on the ship. 
A methodical search of my two adjoining rooms, the ample closet space, and the attached bathroom facility had similarly provided no fodder. 
I wanted to find something, anything, that would prove all this was normal and sane. 
I wanted my contentment back. 
In one hand I balanced my plate of star-shaped crackers, globs of elegant dips and garnishes, little rolled balls of meats and cheeses stabbed through with spears of some pale green plant, and an array of other delectable, bite-sized items. 
She glared at me, but obediently let me pull her along. 
She gave me a grumpy look that informed me, quite clearly, of her current opinion of me. 
I don't know much, she said, still annoyed but at least cooperative. 
I was just coming up on a corner and he was around the other side, talking to a couple people, and they must not have known I was there. 
And listen, when they came round the corner, Ray was with the captain. The next time the captain stopped by our group, Tiffany tagging along (pretending that she, too, was a social butterfly who could mingle equally well with everyone), we were ready. 
Down past the Emerald Lounge, second door on the left. 
Medical AI were even more expensive than the barkeep. 
Had anyone on the ship ever fallen seriously ill? 
The captain? I shrugged. 
That doesn't answer my question, she said. 
Not hungry? asked Kishori sympathetically. 
At least have a drink, said Sarah. 
Maybe that's the problem, said Sarah. 
You ever heard of Dunbar? 
If you dislike this place so much, why don't you do something about it? We can't, said Ray. 
That's survival,  Adrienne corrected her. 
I shifted my feet in the plush green carpeting of the Emerald Lounge, looking out the windows at the stars. 
All of it was temporary, save for the black. 
Everything temporary. 
Thinking about that, I wondered if Sarah's theory was right after all. 
He made this shipthis lifea constant. 
The one thing that wouldn't change. 
Maybe we'd never know each other, not truly, because we all hid behind the stories, creating the realities we wanted to see. 
We each had our own theory. 
Maybe it made us feel less alone. 
She smiled, then crossed the room to join me by the window, not waiting for an answer. 
All these things I do, they're just to pass the time until I die. Adrienne looked at me, then back out through the window. 
After all of it, as much as we feared being alone, we feared being vulnerable even more. 
Look what I found, Adrienne said. 
And what happens to Adrienne? 
Jefferson was in the Captain's Lounge, Fact: Sound is a vibration. 
Up his dosage, I heard the captain say. 
I didn't want to forget. 
The last thing I remember, I was tearing down the corridors. 
Every ship had life boats. 
I'd find one. 
A planet. 
Some other ship. 
Ray, he caught me as I pounded on the corridor walls, finding no glass to break. 
It'll pass, he told me. 
It passed. 
I can never leave. 
The gentle constant breeze of recycled air from the vent above blew an annoying hair against her nose, but she ignored it. 
"Tarrin says the planet's a freaking gemstone! 
Of all the impertinence! 
That's what I get for not using mercenaries. 
Mahogany-black curly hair, cut short in the typical military style framed a careworn, dark-skinned face. 
She had the look of every leader she had ever known. 
You look like hell, Tar. 
Don't let fatigue get to you. 
She seemed so depthless - self conscious and shallow on the outside, but having that incredible gift. 
Well, if she didn't pan out, she'd be terminated. 
He was what this was all about. 
His pointed ears swiveled back and forth, catching every sound from the bridge, while his long tail swished to the rhythm of his thoughts. 
Right now, he looked like an overgrown wolf who'd learned touch-typing. 
It's hail crackled across the comm, and Tara spun to retake her seat at the helm. 
Won't Central be crushed to learn that another gateway has yielded little more than a class F planet and a white dwarf system. 
This sounds like it's the one." The distinctive whuffle of pleasure rippled through the betas on the bridge, and Rakal let loose a small growl, as if to caution his charges against false hope. 
Tara would not let giddy hopes drag them onto a rock that would spell the end for the project, and the Arrallin species. 
Ranney Nathans Bylichka Dedicated to Neil Gaiman, Radiohead and Black Sabbath Strange things have always happened to my family. 
When I asked her if she'd ever seen them  before I was old enough to stop believing, I mean  she would always look sad and tell me, "No, not since the family came to America has anything happened to us. 
Boston is a strange place at night. 
It was a Friday night. 
She checked it there in the restaurant. 
Im not sure Im up for a night out. I was feeling calm and private that night. 
Okay, Rachel. 
Lets not get fucked up tonight, though, okay, Rache? 
Come on, I dont have to get fucked up every time we go out just to enjoy myself. 
It was dark enough that I could actually see a few stars through the screen of city light. 
If it was March, that meant that wed been together almost a year and a half. 
Now spring was back, under the concrete, and I could smell it even here. 
Even the city feels alive when spring comes. Taxi! She waved down a car and pulled me in. 
After she paid the driver, she grabbed my arm, laughing, and we ran down the street. 
The old vaulted church was stripped down: there was no cloth on the altar, just a DJs toolkit and his beer. 
A confessional too beaten-up to have been sold was shaking in a way that suggested activity inside, and where the pews had been taken out, a couple hundred people were testifying to the DJs moving sermon. 
I danced with Rachel for a while, but then something by the bar seemed to be pulling her eyes. 
When she hadnt come back halfway through the next song, I glanced over at the bar. 
Rachel was standing with a plastic cup, looking like she was having a conversation, but I couldnt see anyone else there. 
He stood in front of a blue light, so I couldnt see him clearly, but what I saw was memorable. 
The blue haze seemed to stop just shy of his pallor, setting off his striking face without illuminating its details, and his wrists flashed white in the darkness. 
The next time I saw them, his mouth was moving. 
I watched them through the crush of dancers as they squeezed along the wall, and the feeling came to me that something was very wrong. 
I called Mitch and our other friends, hoping that shed crashed at one of their houses, but I had no luck. 
I didnt know how they could miss such exotic features, even in that distorting light. 
It was still a mess, but everything bigger than a soda can had disappeared. 
The church was completely different now: sunlight fell through the stained glass, catching dust that still hung in the air and sending a dry, healthy warmth into the edges of the room, through the stone and the powdery concrete that had been covered last night by flesh and flashing lights. 
Standing in the center of the church, I took out my cell phone and called the police. 
What? 
She didnt come home last night, none of her friends have seen her. 
My girlfriend has disappeared, I dont even know where to start looking, and I need help! 
I understand. The police wouldnt file a report for someone whod been missing overnight. 
Walking out of the church, a little gust of cold air caught me by surprise. 
Glancing down the street, I realized that I didnt have a friend to drive me home this time, and it was a long walk back to the streets where taxis ran. 
Walking didnt build up much heat; it just moved the air enough to chill me more. 
It slowed down as it neared me and I started to worry. 
I kept my eyes straight ahead and tried to walk more quickly without showing it. 
Hey, said a male voice, do you need some help? I turned around. 
Really, Id like to help. 
Im just fine. 
We have a lot of work ahead of us, and its best to start now. I walked around the car and got into the passenger seat. 
Okay, I said. 
Now, will you tell me how you know my family, and how you happened to be driving by just now? 
I know your family because an ancestor of mine made a bargain with an ancestor of yours. 
I will help you find your Rachel. 
Something in his tone couldnt be disbelieved. 
If shes in trouble, I want to find her, wherever she is. My driver took a deep breath. 
You see, Nathan, there is separate from your society oh, damn it. 
My driver turned again next to an old warehouse that I might have been in once when Mitch took us to a rave in sophomore year. 
Their bumpers looked ready to drop off, and their paint was half smog. 
Hey, I said, are you sure that we should be going this way? 
Youll be used to the sensation in a moment. That just unnerved me more. 
I noticed that there were some people on the street, people the same color as the soiled buildings. 
Okay, this is the spot, said my driver, pulling over. 
Is it really safe to leave the car  he was already walking toward the squat, brick-windowed building we were parked next to. 
I hopped out, ran after him, and reached him just as he was knocking on the door. 
Inside, the building opened up. 
It looked like we were in the back of a nightclub. 
Nice, my man, he said as they clasped hands. 
Did I ever tell you about them? Yeah, one time, man, but you were pretty fucked up. 
His skin was brown and stretched, like some diseased saplings bark. 
When he grinned, I saw that his teeth were sharp and small, like a hunting cats. 
Nepthys quickly answered for me. 
Nepthys nodded: Its okay, you can trust him. 
It almost looked like the light bent around him without actually touching him directly. 
I get that all the time around here. He was wearing a sort of jacket maybe blue velvet, I couldnt tell in the dark, but it had ruffles at the throat, things like that. 
Thats why I couldnt understand why no-one else remembered him. 
I remember that he hardly ever moved, just stared at Rachel. 
I dont know how he couldve been heard over the music. The two glanced at each other. 
Ive looked into it a little, and I do think we might be dealing with one of them. 
I can send you to a guy who knows all about them, though. 
We should head straight over. 
Here, let me write down how to find him. The hunchback pulled out a scrap of paper and scribbled something on it with his fingernail, then handed it to Nepthys. 
Good luck! Thanks, Dvorov. 
Lets go. That last one was to me. 
He gave me a half-hearted wave that made me wonder what exactly we were chasing, and whether I should be wearing body armor. 
The yellow of this sky wasnt just smog: it had a leeching, heavy dimness. 
A corpulent, batrachian woman walked along with something on a leash that looked like a massive water beetle. 
Thirty-five thin fingers waved lazily like seaweed. 
We, and thousands like us, have been living separately as long as there has been a human society, said my driver. 
We interact with humans, take advantage of them, grant them boons, sometimes even become their friends, but the majority of both societies have little or no interaction. 
The only place with any significant interaction between our worlds is on the fringes of yours. 
Those of us who live permanently in this world tend to set up in places like this, where the human population is so overwhelming that they wont be noticed in the right corner, with the right protective spells. He took out the hunchbacks directions and glanced at an alley behind us. 
We should get started right away. 
Setting an arm on my shoulder, he said, Nathan, what you see here might be frightening, but those things you saw are people just like you. 
Its very reassuring that Ill not only be an outsider but a curiosity. Nathan, you told me five minutes ago that you would do anything to help Rachel. 
In this world, ones word is a promise. 
Only if you stop beginning every sentence with my name. Youve got a deal. 
What you may call me is Nepthys. Holding Dvorovs directions, Nepthys took us around the corner of the building into a skinny alleyway. 
Walking through an alley with rubbish piles that occasionally skittered from one wall to the other, he did not inspire confidence. 
East is that way. He pointed at the wall to our right. 
Then Im going to shed a little blood, but dont worry, none of yours. I blinked at him, but he just kept walking until we reached the corner. 
Try to keep in time with me. We spun around three times, and then something flashed across Nepthys hand and he shook a spray of blood onto the dust. 
When it had all burnt, a thin outline of a doorframe appeared on the wall across from our corner. 
Are you coming? We slipped through the door and came out, not inside the building, but on a busy street in a completely different part of town. 
Nepthys took us immediately to the right, where he led us to a cart filled with herbs. 
The thing tending the cart reminded me of the caterpillar from Alice in Wonderland: it had the same opium-dream wise man quality Id always given the caterpillar. 
Its face was small and wrinkled, with penny-sized smoked glasses balanced on its thin nose. 
There are no finer to spice a meal, nor purer to mix a potion. 
If   You know what I mean. 
I imagine that people do not come here for unimportant reasons. It hissed thoughtfully. 
We entered. 
Its only light came from a dying candle on the desk whose spark etched shadows in the roughly planked walls. 
Were here for information about a vampire, said Nepthys. 
Sorry, kid. 
Frankly, I dont know if we can even doing anything against a vampire. 
So theyre probably worse than we think, okay, thats great. 
Okay? 
Now calm down while I talk to this gentleman. 
Nepthys turned back to the little man on the bed, who had not moved. 
As you can see, our situation is of personal importance to the young man. 
It would be a great help to us. The little man drew a few loud breaths that died in the wooden rooms tight air. 
I do not want to provide help to someone who would do harm. Sir, we simply want to discover whether this individual is, in fact, a vampire. 
I tried to keep myself calm. 
It would allow me to leave this bed, despite my current illness. 
You have our thanks. Outside, the thing at the herb cart nodded when we mentioned the stone. 
When we reached the street, I expected some sort of temple, or a row of antiquaries, or at least a sleazy, black-market relics merchant. 
Nepthys didnt need to warn me not to speak to them. 
Inside, the entrance room was hung with bright silks and scattered with velvet cushions. 
A large woman, similarly decorated, quickly drifted up to us. 
May I invite you to have a cup of tea? No, thank you, said Nepthys, we regret that we cannot take up your kind offer. 
I am Madame Entera, at your service. 
Are you? 
Please, walk this way. She led us past the silks and through an arch decorated with pictures of wooden ships and what looked like African tribesmen. 
After this, we went up a flight of stairs and past a row of doors barred on the outside. 
This is a slave shop, he explained quietly. 
As she brought out the key, she said, We deal mostly in fairly mundane trades, but there are a few customers with more unusual needs and people willing to sell unusual items. 
This is one of the stranger items, though. 
If we only had a human on our staff, we could have done so ages ago and sold it off, but we have no such luck. She opened the door and took us past several doors marked with odd geometrical designs to another locked room. 
A marvel, isnt it? she said. 
What would convince you to part with it? She considered this, looking him over. 
He looks healthy, she said, how about a pint of his blood? A pint? 
Well, kid, what do you think? 
There was a wooden chair, where she sat me down and asked me to wait. 
Roll up your sleeves, she told me. 
It must have been larger than my finger. 
The cold thing stretched and cast around with its sucker-mouth until it found the soft spot inside my elbow, where it softly sucked on and began to work its way under my skin. 
They take about a quarter-pint each, said Madame Entera, drawing out another skinny leech. 
Well be done with them before your hair is finished. Then she clapped her hands and brought in the barber. 
At least the barber hadnt nicked me. 
Be careful you dont let him touch it until youre ready to use it, the woman admonished Nepthys as she slipped the stone into a grey cloth pouch and handed it to him. 
Come on, said Nepthys, you could use a drink. We hit a bar on the next street over. 
Make it extra bloody. When our drinks came, he poured a dollop of something from an inner pocket into my Bloody Mary. 
You could run on empty with a little of that stuff. 
Drink up, kid. I took about half of the Bloody Mary in one gulp and then ate the celery. 
I think that our world is a reflection of yours, or yours is a more boring reflection of ours. 
In America, things are still weird after the European conquest. 
The Europeans mostly manifest as something like the underground society of your cities. 
Some of them actually commit to this society, though. 
One wrong word and you find yourself cursed with infinite earwax or something. 
They were always my favorite part of the Greek myths I read in elementary school. 
How did you get to America? My parents came over from Russia, just like your family. 
Shouldnt you be going light on the vodka? 
I can drink like a fish, kid. 
Still woozy? I nodded. 
Come on, lets go. As we left the bar, I asked to see the rock. 
Im just curious. 
Nepthys tried to grab it, but, by reflex, I caught it first. 
Then there was light, a kind of rosy glow, and I felt the stone slip out of my hand to float in the air. 
Do you know what this thing does? I shouted, hardly able to hear myself. 
There was no sign of the stone. 
The girl was as soft and rosy as the stones glow, and she was dressed in a white shift tied at the waist with a belt like a Celtic knot. 
When she didnt move, I knelt down and put a hand to her brow. 
I couldnt move. 
I opened my mouth to ask for an explanation, but Nepthys stopped me. 
The next thing that comes out of your mouth is probably what shell respond to until we figure out how to put her back. I was at a loss. 
I stood up and Amy stood with me. 
What! he screamed. 
You woke it up? 
Fools! 
I thought as much. 
Nepthys shook his hands at me like he wanted to wrap them around my neck. 
I should say, set yourself back, since its your girlfriend were looking for. I thought about Rachel; in the excitement, I had forgotten why we were chasing down vampire experts. 
Come on, were heading out. He held the door for me and Amy when we reached the bottom of the stairs. 
Night comes quickly here, said Nepthys quietly as he came out behind me. 
It was a black baseball cap that read Dead Can Dance in gold across the front. 
The black door opened as we came up to it, and a pale man opened the door. 
I only say he because he didnt have a hint of femininity. 
From behind him, I could hear something that sounded like a remix of the Cures A Forest. 
Tell her that Nepthys is here to see her. The man closed his eyes. 
Nepthys walked straight past him and I tried to keep up, taking Amys small hand so that she wouldnt lag behind. 
Amy gave my hand a squeeze. 
I thought that I saw one rib shift in its setting, like a cat trying to scratch its back against a wall, but when I turned, it was still. 
Inside, the space opened into a wide, square chamber mirrored and so dark that it could have been any size. 
These were incontestably male. 
As she rose, her robes fell open and I realized that, except for what looked like a red silk kimono, she was naked  naked and stunning. 
Its been years since Ive seen you. 
The girl is surprising, he concluded. 
I took it and, dropping to one knee, gave her fingers a small kiss. 
It is an honor to meet you, Lady Isis, I said. 
Oh, precious! 
You may leave out the Lady, boy. 
Now, how can I help the elegantly mannered friend of my Nepthys and his surprising young charge? 
May I have a little more of what you gave me before, Nepthys? I asked. 
The wines rich scent had a touch of something chemical that I recognized from the bar, but it filled my mouth and sank into my veins with reassuring warmth. 
Youve lost blood, boy? 
Does it have anything to do with why your head is shaved? It was part of the price for this girl, who was a rock at the time, explained Nepthys. 
That sweet, small nose, and her soft lips  shed kiss well, I should think, if gently. 
Good, round breasts, too, even though theyre small, they suit her. Amy didnt blush, and I hoped that she didnt understand what Isis was saying. 
He was going to give us valuable information for her. Now I understand why youre here, said Isis. 
Mmm, she replied. 
I think that the person who stole the girl were looking for might be a vampire. 
Describe this one to me. 
If not, youll have to bring me something to work with. Nepthys looked at me. 
Isis set her elbows in the fur and rested her head on her hands while I spoke and tried not to stare at her full, hanging breasts. 
Thats amazing! It is. 
He should be. 
All right, then. 
The glow reflected on her pink face, casting a sickly pallor over her heartbeat-strong cheeks. 
Her candy lips twisted into a frown. 
In her palms, the droplets of blood swelled into small pools. 
The pools in her hands grew deeper. 
Then her fingers tensed and her arms began to shake. 
Shivers swept through her body, and Nepthys reached out to touch her but I stopped him. 
Her hands twitched and a drop of blood shook out, splashing on the crease of her thigh and hanging to one strand of the black hair between her legs. 
Isis collapsed on the fur, strings cut. 
Isis, what happened? 
What did you say? asked Nepthys. 
I found your vampire, she said, but he might know that someones looking for him. 
You should look for him at Dvorovs as quickly as you can. She turned to me with tired sympathy. 
Hurry, though, and you might find him before he leaves. A twitch of her fingers summoned her pale servants. 
I looked back to see Nepthys whispering something to her. 
I turned back to the door. 
When we got there, another pale servant was waiting for us with a box of dark stained wood. 
Mountain ash, said Nepthys. 
I really hope we find your Rachel, he said. 
I know a quick way to Dvorovs, said Nepthys. 
The pulse from inside made the building sound like a giant heart. 
You got the sucker already? No, but we got a tip that he might be in your club. 
Youre crazy. 
Anyway, long time, man. Thats odd. 
I have a real feeling that hes in here somewhere. Dvorov glanced over his shoulder, a little nervous. 
I dont want my customers thinkin that anythings wrong, you know? Of course. 
So did you get anything out of the guy I sent you to? Dvorov asked us. 
I guess I probably shouldve known, though. 
Anyway, this is the dance floor, man. 
Then I saw the bar on the other side of the crowd and knew where to start looking. 
Things with scales and claws kept flailing against me, pressing me into the wall, but I took a breath and kept moving. 
The music began to build, and a strobe came on. 
Then I felt a tug on the back of my shirt and noticed that Amy was following me. 
Dvorov was somewhere behind me, too, negotiating delicately through his patrons. 
It slumped to the floor and I realized that it was a werewolf. 
Holding Amy in my arms as we ducked between the crush of dancers, I started to wonder if the chances of finding this vampire were even good enough to merit this. 
A cold thing with countless, writhing tentacles fell against me, thrashing as if in the throes of a drug overdose, tripping me and clutching at my limbs. 
Then a looming shape to my right fell away, and I saw him in a flash of the strobe, his black eyes staring deadly into the crowd. 
A bleeding, eyeless thing shuddered and beat its arms against me, but I ducked around it and toward the bar. 
It was Dvorov. 
You seen enough, man? he shouted. 
Hes sitting right there at the bar! Dvorov tried to peek through the crowd, but it had shifted again and we couldnt see a thing. 
It must have been wishful thinking. No, I saw him! 
Who knows how long hell stick around? Listen, man, hes not there! 
Dont do this, kid! 
Even if you did find this vampire cat, hed tear you apart! 
Suddenly, Amy screamed. 
His eyes were glowing red, and he had bared a set of fangs that could probably take my hand off. 
He shot back up, hardly touching the ground, and I kicked him back. 
A heavy thing hit my arm with a thump and knocked me back against someone with rough paws who held me up. 
Nepthys stood over him with a blue sword in his hand. 
He wasnt the only one with a secret or two, he said by way of explanation. 
The crowd parted for us. 
In a blink of the strobe light, he was on his feet and dashing from the room. 
We chased after him, Amy keeping up valiantly behind us. 
Luckily, the vampire turned off after three stories. 
Nepthys urged me on from the back of the room, then made a turn out of sight. 
I didnt imagine that Nepthys had done it, and it wasnt without alarm that I ran after him. 
The vault rose into obscurity above me, and a massive rose window stood ahead of me. 
Footsteps echoed through the stone chamber, and the sound reflected back to me from everywhere. 
On the steps in front of the altar, I saw pale forms and realized that they were Rachel and two other women. 
Behind you! I whirled and dropped in time to see the vampire shoot over my head, leaping like a panther. 
There was Nepthys, on the other side of the pews, holding the wooden box in his hand. 
I pulled out the hammer and one of the stakes. 
I dodged, but he tossed it, and I held the box in front of my face. 
My arms shook from the force of his throw. 
His first move pulled out the dagger, almost wrenching my arms from their sockets as I held on to the box, and the second shattered the box with a crushing punch that sent me reeling backwards. 
Behind him, I saw Nepthys running between the pews. 
I raised the stake; he drew back the dagger for a slash that could doubtless open my neck from throat to spine. 
Two points of fire opened in my throat for an instant, then all went numb. 
My mind began to dissipate, but then I felt the pain withdraw and a lifeless voice said, This ones blood isnt worth drinking. Hands closed on my neck and I felt my spine crack. 
I could perceive Nepthys sword flashing over me, and I heard steel crack, then bone. 
Then one set of footsteps began walking toward the altar. 
A girls voice, soft and almost recognizable, spoke, Nathan. I felt my head turn and something in my neck reconnected. 
I stood and turned toward the altar. 
I stepped up behind him and raised my hands, which almost seemed to be glowing. 
The vampire fell forward and blood began to flow from his mouth. 
I pulled the vial of liquid that hed been giving me from his pocket and ran to the altar. 
I pulled her into my arms and she tried to put hers around me. 
The Black Willow Allan sat down at his desk and pulled the chair in close. 
After filling his pen, Allan looked at his paper in the orange glow from the lantern set back in the desk's right-hand corner. 
The only other illumination came from a lurid moonlight filtered through thin branches and clouds, casting its bone-pale glow onto the pine floorboards. 
The lines of letters stepped into their divisions, in the shape of a story's outline: the loose, dry skeleton of a tale lay exposed beneath their feet, awaiting tendons, muscle and blushing skin. 
Although the concept was a simple one, Allan thought it had potential. 
Perhaps this will be more saleable, he thought and began to write. 
I'm almost done, and the happy ending is just falling into place. 
As he thought this, a sinuous wind encircled the house, slipping through the walls to chill him. 
This was no stranger, however; the twisted, ancient thing was older than Allan, its branches rapping on his window since his childhood. 
The great, jaundiced eye stared down unblinkingly at the author, who gazed up through his window's tiny frame with trepidation. 
His pen flickered forth, words dancing out from its nib. 
For while the lantern's spark shivered in the chill breeze, this burn was steady and true as the motion of its owner's pen, scratching out the rhythm of the willow's fingers. 
He held a hand to his forehead, eyes closed and face flushed. 
After all that  so near the end, to lose control again. 
His face soft as if caught between a smile and tears, he draped his loose cape over her shoulders. 
A magnificent glow infused the carriage as they merged with the sky's glory. 
"Damn you," he cried, "will you never leave me be? 
The next day, Allan sat on a florally patterned chair in a well-furnished parlor. 
"Cucumber sandwich?" Allan took a sandwich between his fingers. 
Clemm?" "Perfectly dreadful, my dear Mr. 
Poe's works, but I assume you're referring to your unhealthy penchant for the fantastic." "It's far from a 'penchant,' Arthur. 
"I'm sure you know that you must curb this behavior if you wish to produce any writing fit for public consumption." "I know," Allan replied, "but how am I to do that? 
There simply is no audience for fairy tales  no literate audience, at least." "It is true," Allan admitted, fidgeting with his cufflinks, "that I would not dream of submitting one of these corruptions of literature to any publisher. 
My prodigal ink-blooded children simply lose their vitality when forced along the proper road." Arthur sighed and sipped his wine. 
It's hard enough listening to your wild speech without seeing it appear in the refined world of print, like a surly foreigner among a genteel crowd." Allan hung his head, holding his wine with both hands between his arched knees. 
He scratched the back of his dark-haloed head and blinked bleary eyes. 
"You might find that some time in an honest occupation would ground you somewhat, improve your disposition." "Perhaps it would," Allan replied, rising and vainly straightening his suit. 
You have been a gracious host, as always." Arthur rose and shook his hand. 
"I hope soon to see you in better sorts." They parted and Allan made his way pensively from Arthur's gate. 
His hair fell loosely across a face that seemed always to have a knowing smirk hidden just beneath its surface, infusing his body with a rakish energy. 
"I destroyed another story last night, Nathan." Leaning against his tree, Nathan shook his head. 
Ended! 
Nathan, you've read these abominations of mine. 
At best, they are faery tales; at worst, expeditions into macabre realms no healthy mind need ever see." "So instead, you would write  what?" "Something saleable; something worth reading, worth writing! 
Why do you ask?" "You choose to write rather than become a fisherman or a carpenter, though you face such difficulty. 
I would not be happy, thus separated from it." "So at its heart, then, your writing  as opposed to working otherwise  is for yourself?" "Yes, I suppose one could see it thus. 
"Your writing is for you, Allan, not for the publishers or some imagined audience. 
Your stories strike a chord with the deepest, most ancient stories of mankind, the tales basic to humanity. 
He had filled his pen and raised it, the nib descending towards the paper, before the sound came: the gentle, persistent tapping of the gnarled, primeval willow touching the window with long, insistent fingers. 
Allan filled page after page, the words escaping from his mind onto the paper. 
He continued long into the night, until the eldritch orb had sunk into the waiting hands of the willow, raised perpetually skyward. 
"What is this?" he queried, indicating the pages he held in his left hand. 
"What in G-d's name could have possessed you to do such a thing," cried Arthur, nearly raising his voice. 
"This is nothing but a glorified Grimm's tale, a miscarried child of Stoker, a creation less fit to be published than to be told around an open fire at the hovel of some peasant!" He spoke the last word with such heavy intonation that Allan shrank back before the physical wave of sound emanating from Arthur's throat. 
Do you personally despise the works the Enlightenment or the progress made since Shakespeare??" For a moment, Allan could hardly do more than shake his head. 
"Its twigs rap constantly against the wall, the wind always demanding my attention. 
Clemm? 
"Nathan would understand completely." Even as he said it, Allan prayed that his statement was true. 
If you insist on abandoning me, I shall not hold you." With that, he tossed the papers at Allan and left the room. 
He then turned and left through the door opposite that Arthur had taken, making his way past his host's doorman without assistance and setting off on foot towards Nathan's residence, several miles away. 
Allan sat nervously across from him in a chair Nathan had probably upholstered himself, a patchwork design of fabric containing easily more stuffing than any other furniture item of the period. 
Allan leaned forward unconsciously. 
"So," he asked, "you don't think it's a waste of ink and paper, a futile expedition into morbidity or literary debauchery?" "Heavens, no," said Nathan, aghast. 
Oh, they may rail against you at first; they may decry you as a heathen or a literary savage; but while those in power say such things, others will read your tales and see their true worth. 
Nathan promised to show the story to a printer he knew and Allan left it with him, then walked home under the spreading maples with a smile lingering on his face. 
Certainly, it was undeniable that the stories had an originality to them. 
These thoughts and others like them filled his head as he walked the long road home. 
Arthur paused in the door, looking up at Allan for a moment; then he turned and shut the door behind him. 
As they trotted forth, Allan's eyes remained trapped by the carriage, following it up the hillock and past himself. 
He turned to regard the pillar still rising behind his house and ran to see what had been done. 
A mass of flaming wood stood before him, heat singeing him and sparks flying too close to his house. 
His handfuls could do nothing to quench the hewn, burning logs, but when the night sky grew dark above him and the fire dwindled to black ashes, tears threatened to spill forth and extinguish the final embers. 
Instead, he bethought himself of the loss of the tree; considered also Arthur's motivation and whether some good might not come of this, after all. 
He stepped slowly beneath the branches, a gust of wind stirring up the ashes behind him in a great, swirling eddy, a burning brand that rose up and dispersed on the winds as though it were the willow's last breath. 
Indeed, if he still could not, he could at any time follow Arthur's advice and seek a profession more grounded in reality. 
He found himself along the bank of a low, wide stream and allowed himself to follow its current. 
As the stream wound its way through the largest pines, grown so great as to eclipse that feature of the landscape they had once crowded about for sweet water as saplings, Allan continued, slowing his pace to climb across the toes of the slumbering giants. 
Emerging from between the antediluvian trunks, Allan set his feet softly down onto the carpet of needles and stopped. 
Fallen trunks lay rotting across the rivulet; the living elders oversaw the grove while younger trees, still small and not yet as knotted and gnarled as their forefathers, sprang up where branches reached the ground. 
Allan stumbled forward, jaw slightly slack, until his outstretched hands encountered the rough bark of a twisted, three-trunked willow whose waists were each larger than Allan himself. 
WARTIME After the attacks had occurred, while crisis managers were still sorting out a number of unnerving false alarms, Air Force One flew to Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana. 
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. 
President Bush reluctantly acceded to this advice and, at about 10:10, Air Force One changed course and began heading due west. 
The Secret Service was also interested in refueling the aircraft and paring down the size of the traveling party. 
When Air Force One landed at Barksdale at about 11:45, personnel from the local Secret Service office were still en route to the airfield. 
Staff scrambled to prepare another room for the President's remarks, while the lead Secret Service agent reviewed the security situation with superiors in Washington. 
The Secret Service wanted a place where the President could spend several days, if necessary. 
At about 3:15, President Bush met with his principal advisers through a secure video teleconference. 
That evening the Deputies Committee returned to the pending presidential directive they had labored over during the summer. 
For the first time in history, all nonemergency civilian aircraft in the United States were grounded, stranding tens of thousands of passengers across the country. 
The Pentagon had been struck; the White House or the Capitol had narrowly escaped direct attack. 
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force Base. 
. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, who had returned from Peru after hearing of the attacks, joined the discussion. 
IMMEDIATE RESPONSES AT HOME As the urgent domestic issues accumulated, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten chaired a temporary "domestic consequences" group. 
It began with problems of how to help victims and stanch the flowing losses to the American economy, such as Organizing federal emergency assistance. 
Compensating victims. 
Determining federal assistance. 
Restoring civil aviation. 
Reopening the financial markets. 
Deciding when and how to return border and port security to more normal operations. 
The very process of reviewing these issues underscored the absence of an effective government organization dedicated to assessing vulnerabilities and handling problems of protection and preparedness. 
By September 14, Vice President Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of combining them in a new department. 
Vice President Cheney reviewed the proposal with President Bush and other advisers. 
Some (such as Zacarias Moussaoui) were actually in INS custody before 9/11; most were arrested after. 
Ashcroft ordered all special interest immigration hearings closed to the public, family members, and press; directed government attorneys to seek denial of bond until such time as they were "cleared" of terrorist connections by the FBI and other agencies; and ordered the identity of the detainees kept secret. 
Records indicate that 531 were deported, 162 were released on bond, 24 received some kind of immigration benefits, 12 had their proceedings terminated, and 8-one of whom was Moussaoui-were remanded to the custody of the U.S. 
The inspector general of the Justice Department found significant problems in the way the 9/11 detainees were treated. 
The government's ability to collect intelligence inside the United States, and the sharing of such information between the intelligence and law enforcement communities, was not a priority before 9/11. 
However, the attacks of 9/11 changed everything. 
A central provision of the proposal was the removal of "the wall" on information sharing between the intelligence and law enforcement communities (discussed in chapter 3). 
The administration developed a proposal that eventually passed both houses of Congress by large majorities and was signed into law on October 26. 
(2) Was there any political intervention to facilitate the departure of Saudi nationals? 
First, we found no evidence that any flights of Saudi nationals, domestic or international, took place before the reopening of national airspace on the morning of September 13, 2001. 
Second, we found no evidence of political intervention. 
The issue came up in one of the many video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency discussion at his level. 
. 
to handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted access to any of these people, and to get back to me. 
The President and Vice President told us they were not aware of the issue at all until it surfaced much later in the media. 
The Federal Aviation Administration representative working in the FBI operations center made sure that the FBI was aware of the flights of Saudi nationals and was able to screen the passengers before they were allowed to depart. 
They concluded that none of the passengers was connected to the 9/11 attacks and have since found no evidence to change that conclusion. 
PLANNING FOR WAR By late in the evening of September 11, the President had addressed the nation on the terrible events of the day. 
The long day was not yet over. 
From the White House staff, National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice and Chief of Staff Card were part of the core group, often joined by their deputies, Stephen Hadley and Joshua Bolten. 
The United States would punish not just the perpetrators of the attacks, but also those who harbored them. 
He said we would need to build a coalition. 
Secretary Rumsfeld urged the President and the principals to think broadly about who might have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran. 
President Bush chaired two more meetings of the NSC on September 12. 
The President tasked principals to go beyond their pre-9/11 work and develop a strategy to eliminate terrorists and punish those who support them. 
Rice chaired a Principals Committee meeting on September 13 in the Situation Room to refine how the fight against al Qaeda would be conducted. 
The United States would need to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence, and military actions into an overarching strategy. 
They concluded that if Pakistan decided not to help the United States, it too would be at risk. 
Armitage said that the United States wanted Pakistan to take seven steps: to stop al Qaeda operatives at its border and end all logistical support for Bin Ladin; to give the United States blanket overflight and landing rights for all necessary military and intelligence operations; to provide territorial access to U.S. 
Pakistan made its decision swiftly. 
request for support in the war on terrorism. 
To counterbalance that he needed to show that Pakistan was benefiting from his decisions." At the September 13 NSC meeting, when Secretary Powell described Pakistan's reply, President Bush led a discussion of an appropriate ultimatum to the Taliban. 
The President wanted the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not. 
President Bush also tasked the State Department, which on the following day delivered to the White House a paper titled "Game Plan for a Political- Military Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan." The paper took it as a given that Bin Ladin would continue to act against the United States even while under Taliban control. 
demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions. 
The State Department did not expect the Taliban to comply. 
Both departments would consult with NATO and other allies and request intelligence, basing, and other support from countries, according to their capabilities and resources. 
stance: America would use all its resources to eliminate terrorism as a threat, punish those responsible for the 9/11 attacks, hold states and other actors responsible for providing sanctuary to terrorists, work with a coalition to eliminate terrorist groups and networks, and avoid malice toward any people, religion, or culture. 
But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options were disappointing. 
The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to such a plan. 
He proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to work with Afghan warlords who would join the fight against al Qaeda. 
President Bush later praised this proposal, saying it had been a turning point in his thinking. 
It drew on the Infinite Resolve "phased campaign" plan the Pentagon had begun developing in November 2000 as an addition to the strike options it had been refining since 1998. 
After hearing from his senior advisers, President Bush discussed with Rice the contents of the directives he would issue to set all the plans into motion. 
"The purpose of this meeting," he recalled saying,"is to assign tasks for the first wave of the war against terrorism. 
President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed. 
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the ultimatum. 
Finally, he directed Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill to craft a plan to target al Qaeda's funding and seize its assets. 
Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and medical assistance teams. 
demands. 
The pre-9/11 draft presidential directive on al Qaeda evolved into a new directive, National Security Presidential Directive 9, now titled "Defeating the Terrorist Threat to the United States." The directive would now extend to a global war on terrorism, not just on al Qaeda. 
It included a determination to use military force if necessary to end al Qaeda's sanctuary in Afghanistan. 
The old draft directive on al Qaeda became, in effect, the first annex. 
The goal was the "elimination of terrorism as a threat to our way of life." "PHASE TWO" AND THE QUESTION OF IRAQ President Bush had wondered immediately after the attack whether Saddam Hussein's regime might have had a hand in it. 
As a former pilot, the President was struck by the apparent sophistication of the operation and some of the piloting, especially Hanjour's high-speed dive into the Pentagon. 
Speculating about other possible states that could be involved, the President told us he also thought about Iran. 
"See if Saddam did this," Clarke recalls the President telling them." See if he's linked in any way." While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at some point, asking him about Iraq. 
The memo found no "compelling case" that Iraq had either planned or perpetrated the attacks. 
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime. 
On the afternoon of 9/11, according to contemporaneous notes, Secretary Rumsfeld instructed General Myers to obtain quickly as much information as possible. 
He thought the U.S. 
The secretary said his instinct was to hit Saddam Hussein at the same time-not only Bin Ladin. 
According to Rice, the issue of what, if anything, to do about Iraq was really engaged at Camp David. 
Rice told us the administration was concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks. 
Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz made the case for striking Iraq during "this round" of the war on terrorism. 
It argued that of the three, al Qaeda and Iraq posed a strategic threat to the United States. 
Secretary Powell recalled that Wolfowitz-not Rumsfeld-argued that Iraq was ultimately the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked. 
"Paul was always of the view that Iraq was a problem that had to be dealt with," Powell told us." And he saw this as one way of using this event as a way to deal with the Iraq problem." Powell said that President Bush did not give Wolfowitz's argument "much weight." Though continuing to worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan as the priority. 
Iraq was not even on the table during the September 15 afternoon session, which dealt solely with Afghanistan. 
At the September 17 NSC meeting, there was some further discussion of "phase two" of the war on terrorism. 
interests, with plans to include possibly occupying Iraqi oil fields. 
Writing to Rumsfeld on September 17 in a memo headlined "Preventing More Events,"he argued that if there was even a 10 percent chance that Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attack, maximum priority should be placed on eliminating that threat. 
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters, and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight. 
On September 19, Rumsfeld offered several thoughts for his commanders as they worked on their contingency plans. 
He knew he would soon be striking the Taliban and al Qaeda in Afghanistan. 
On September 20, President Bush met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, and the two leaders discussed the global conflict ahead. 
Some members of his administration, he commented, had expressed a different view, but he was the one responsible for making the decisions. 
Having issued directives to guide his administration's preparations for war, on Thursday, September 20, President Bush addressed the nation before a joint session of Congress." Tonight," he said, "we are a country awakened to danger." The President blamed al Qaeda for 9/11 and the 1998 embassy bombings and, for the first time, declared that al Qaeda was "responsible for bombing the USS Cole." He reiterated the ultimatum that had already been conveyed privately." The Taliban must act, and act immediately," he said." They will hand over the terrorists, or they will share in their fate." The President added that America's quarrel was not with Islam: "The enemy of America is not our many Muslim friends; it is not our many Arab friends. 
In Phase One, the United States and its allies would move forces into the region and arrange to operate from or over neighboring countries such as Uzbekistan and Pakistan. 
The Phase Two strikes and raids began on October 7. 
In Phase Three, the United States would carry out "decisive operations" using all elements of national power, including ground troops, to topple the Taliban regime and eliminate al Qaeda's sanctuary in Afghanistan. 
Afghanistan had been liberated from the rule of the Taliban. 
support, engaged al Qaeda elements in a cave complex called Tora Bora. 
In Phase Four, civilian and military operations turned to the indefinite task of what the armed forces call "security and stability operations." Within about two months of the start of combat operations, several hundred CIA operatives and Special Forces soldiers, backed by the striking power of U.S. 
They had killed or captured about a quarter of the enemy's known leaders. 
air strike. 
In turn, the U.S. 
With these initial victories won by the middle of 2002, the global conflict against Islamist terrorism became a different kind of struggle. 
It is possible to achieve better results at lower costs, but not if we simply add yet another program on top of all of the existing regulations. 
Significant cost savings can be achieved for power generators and consumers through a comprehensive legislative package. 
556 as drafted. 
In addition, the combination of emission reductions and timing is not feasible and could threaten the reliability of electricity supply. 
556 would make some existing requirements unnecessary, but would not eliminate them. 
556 should eliminate those unnecessary existing requirements. 
556 also does not have an allocation scheme. 
556 will cost consumers too much and endanger our energy security by causing too much electricity generation to switch from coal to natural gas. 
For all of these reasons, the Administration must oppose S. 
In my testimony today I will elaborate further on these key points. 
Eleven years ago President George H. 
Bush signed into law the most far reaching amendments to the Clean Air Act since its enactment in 1970. 
It is time to revisit and update the Clean Air Act once again in order to achieve the additional reductions needed to address public health and environmental problems in the most cost effective manner. 
Allowances are the currency with which compliance with the SO2 emissions requirements is achieved. 
Units that reduce their emissions below the number of allowances they hold may trade allowances with other units in the system, sell them to other sources or save them for future use. 
Allowance trading provides incentives for energy conservation and technology innovation that can both lower the cost of compliance and yield pollution prevention benefits. 
The Acid Rain Program has proven to be an excellent model for cap and trade programs. 
Greater reductions earlier than expected have lowered risks to human health and provided benefits to the environment sooner. 
Administrator Whitman addressed these concerns extensively in her testimony before you on July 26, 2001. 
1 Governor Whitman's July 26, 2001, testimony before this Committee contains a detailed discussion of the success of the Acid Rain cap and trade program. 
 NOx emissions contribute to ground-level ozone, which aggravates respiratory illnesses and causes lung inflammation, particularly for at-risk populations such as children, the elderly and those afflicted with asthma, emphysema, and other respiratory ailments. 
Children born to women who consume large amounts of mercury-contaminated fish while pregnant may be at risk for neurodevelopmental defects. 
EPA, states, and industry, working together, have made important strides in addressing the adverse impacts of fossil fuel combustion by the electric power industry since the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970. 
Over the years, Congress, EPA and the States have responded to specific environmental and public health problems by developing separate regulatory programs to address the specific problems. 
Absent changes to the Act, EPA and states will be forced to follow the same approach in future regulations. 
A comprehensive legislative approach with mandatory caps could replace a good portion of the current regulatory requirements with a system that will reduce the administrative burden on industry and governments, use market-based approaches to lower compliance costs, reduce consumers' costs, and increase national energy security by providing the industry with more certainty about its future regulatory obligations. 
If we do it the President's way, it will be a win-win. 
These regulations include both federal and State requirements that address a variety of emissions including SO2, NOx, CO, PM10, and a number of hazardous air pollutants. 
Emissions reductions are required by the end of 2007. 
It is expected that the existing fine particle and ozone standards now in place will also result in further regulation of power generators. 
States will be required to develop plans for these areas. 
Because states and EPA will have to find some way to significantly reduce NOx and SO2 emissions, it is probable that power generators will be required to reduce their emissions significantly. 
Additionally, states know that if they do not get the reductions from power generators, they will have to impose significant reduction requirements on other local industrial and commercial sources or impose local transportation control measures. 
States will not just control their own sources, however. 
This is what has happened in the eastern part of the country when states realized that emissions from sources in other states were significantly contributing to their 1-hour ozone non-attainment problems. 
The petitioning state is entitled to relief if EPA finds that the sources are significantly contributing to the petitioning state's nonattainment problem. 
This one-at-a-time, uncoordinated series of regulatory requirements for the power industry is not the optimal approach for the environment, the power generation sector, or American consumers. 
Further, the attainment efforts of individual States and localities not only impose costs on these entities, but also can increase complexity for companies which face differing requirements when operations cross state lines. 
These and other inefficiencies point to the need for a nationally coordinated approach that could reduce cost while improving environmental progress and accountability. 
This Administration is developing such a proposal. 
Integration, advance knowledge, and certainty regarding environmental requirements will have even greater value over the coming decade as the electric power industry undergoes further structural changes. 
In exchange for flexibility in methods to control emissions, a full accounting of emissions through continuous monitoring and reporting is essential, as well as significant consequences for failing to comply. 
Flexibility stimulates technological innovation, fuels economic activity and reduces cost to industry and consumers. 
The air pollution control and monitoring technology industry is expected to continue to respond with cost-effective compliance solutions just as they have done for the past 30 years. 
This approach also would reduce states' administrative burdens and obligations. 
Additionally, the Acid Rain cap and trade program is administered with a relatively small staff relying on strong, state-of-the-art data tracking and reporting capabilities. 
Consideration of local concerns is important in conjunction with trading provisions. 
Several guidelines are shaping our efforts. 
They will also guide our assessment of other proposals, including S. 
These principles are structured to ensure consistency with the NEP objectives. 
Specific Comments on S. 
556 to significantly reduce and cap emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury from power generation. 
In this way, S. 
We do, however, oppose S. 
Finally, we oppose inclusion of CO2 in this bill. 
We are concerned that the significant emissions reductions are required too quickly. 
To meet these deadlines, facilities may need to be taken off-line during critical periods. 
The abbreviated time frame would force many generators to make these retrofits simultaneously. 
We have not modeled the specific provisions in S. 
In the Smith/Voinovich/Brownback analysis, when we analyzed SO2 and NOx reduction levels similar to S. 
556 and no CO2 reductions, we did not find significant impacts on coal production or electricity prices. 
556, we found significant ramifications: approximately a 20-30% decline of coal generation and a 30-50% increase in electricity prices compared to the reference case (depending on assumptions of energy technology penetration). 
We have not seen anything that demonstrates that every coal-fired power plant would be able to achieve 90% source-specific controls for mercury by 2007, without considerable fuel switching, which would be very disruptive to our economy and undermine energy security. 
We are also very concerned about the "outdated power plant" provision. 
Allowing sources to make reductions where it is most economical to do so is one of the reasons cap and trade programs should be less costly than command-and-control programs that achieve the same or even fewer reductions. 
556, requiring emission reductions at a specific source does not reduce the overall level of pollution, it just limits industry's flexibility about where to make the reductions. 
Second, we have concerns about what is not in S. 
Comparing our experience on the Acid Rain Program with the NOx SIP Call and the Section 126 petitions demonstrates the benefit of having certain key issues decided by Congress rather than left to Agency rulemakings. 
Perhaps the most important program element not addressed in the bill is integration of this new program with the existing Clean Air Act provisions. 
For example, depending on the ultimate cap levels chosen by Congress, this type of legislation would obviate the need for Best Available Retrofit Technology requirements, mercury MACT, and new source review case-by-case technology requirements for power generators. 
556 is the scheme for allocating allowances. 
Should the allowances be auctioned off or be handed out for free? 
Should power generators that do not emit air pollutants (e.g., hydropower facilities) be given allowances? 
Should allocations be fuel neutral? 
The Committee may also wish to consider provisions to track environmental progress to evaluate the efficacy of the program this bill would establish. 
556 or any multi-pollutant bill. 
The Administration will not support any legislation that would cause a significant decline in our nation's ability to use coal as a major source of current and future electricity. 
In short, the Administration supports a clean coal policy as a critical component of our nation's energy and environmental policies, recognizing that other sources of energy also have a critical role to play. 
We agree that climate change is a serious issue we need to address. 
The current body of scientific knowledge does not provide information regarding atmospheric concentrations of CO2 or reduction levels necessary to prevent dangerous interference with the climate system. 
In that regard, the Administration is implementing two major initiatives on climate science and advanced energy and sequestration technologies. 
The "National Climate Change Technology Initiative" will accelerate priority research and the application of advanced energy and sequestration technologies, recognizing that the real answer to addressing climate change in the long term lies in the development and global introduction of such technologies in this century. 
Finally, as greenhouse gas emissions are projected to grow exponentially in the developing world in the next two decades, we must evaluate the costs of imposing domestic reductions as a very high cost against potentially low-cost opportunities for mitigating and sequestering carbon emissions in the developing world. 
556 in generating important discussions and emphasizing the importance of a new approach to controlling emissions in the power sector. 
The history of Clean Air Act legislation is one of great accomplishments made possible by bipartisan efforts. 
CONCLUSIONS OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS INQUIRY COMMISSION The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission has been called upon to examine the financial and economic crisis that has gripped our country and explain its causes to the American people. 
Our task was first to determine what happened and how it happened so that we could understand why it happened. 
The subject of this report is of no small consequence to this nation. 
This was a fundamental disruptiona financial upheaval, if you willthat wreaked havoc in communities and neighborhoods across this country. 
About four million families have lost their homes to foreclosure and another four and a half million have slipped into the foreclosure process or are seriously behind on their mortgage payments. 
Businesses, large and small, have felt the sting of a deep recession. 
Many people who abided by all the rules now find themselves out of work and uncertain about their future prospects. 
The impacts of this crisis are likely to be felt for a generation. 
Like so many Americans, we began our exploration with our own views and some preliminary knowledge about how the worlds strongest financial system came to the brink of collapse. 
Yet all of us have been deeply affected by what we have learned in the course of our inquiry. 
Those decisionsand the deep emotions surrounding themwill be debated long into the future. 
In this report, we detail the events of the crisis. 
When the bubble burst, hundreds of billions of dollars in losses in mortgages and mortgage-related securities shook markets as well as financial institutions that had significant exposures to those mortgages and had borrowed heavily against them. 
The losses were magnified by derivatives such as synthetic securities. 
Panic fanned by a lack of transparency of the balance sheets of major financial institutions, coupled with a tangle of interconnections among institutions perceived to be too big to fail, caused the credit markets to seize up. 
The stock market plummeted. 
The financial markets have become increasingly globalized. 
There is broader access to and lower costs of financing than ever before. 
From 1978 to 2007, the amount of debt held by the financial sector soared from $3 trillion to $36 trillion, more than doubling as a share of gross domestic product. 
By 2005, the 10 largest U.S. 
On the eve of the crisis in 2006, financial sector profits constituted 27% of all corporate profits in the United States, up from 15% in 1980. 
Now to our major findings and conclusions, which are based on the facts contained in this report: they are offered with the hope that lessons may be learned to help avoid future catastrophe. 
The crisis was the result of human action and inaction, not of Mother Nature or computer models gone haywire. 
To paraphrase Shakespeare, the fault lies not in the stars, but in us. 
The tragedy was that they were ignored or discounted. 
Yet there was pervasive permissiveness; little meaningful action was taken to quell the threats in a timely manner. 
The Federal Reserve was the one entity empowered to do so and it did not. 
The sentries were not at their posts, in no small part due to the widely accepted faith in the self- correcting nature of the markets and the ability of financial institutions to effectively police themselves. 
To give just three examples: the Securities and Exchange Commission could have required more capital and halted risky practices at the big investment banks. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other regulators could have clamped down on Citigroups excesses in the run-up to the crisis. 
Policy makers and regulators could have stopped the runaway mortgage securitization train. 
In case after case after case, regulators continued to rate the institutions they oversaw as safe and sound even in the face of mounting troubles, often downgrading them just before their collapse. 
From 1999 to 2008, the financial sector expended $2.7 billion in reported federal lobbying expenses; individuals and political action committees in the sector made more than $1 billion in campaign contributions. 
Too many of these institutions acted recklessly, taking on too much risk, with too little capital, and with too much dependence on short-term funding. 
They took on enormous exposures in acquiring and supporting subprime lenders and creating, packaging, repackaging, and selling trillions of dollars in mortgage-related securities, including synthetic financial products. 
Many of these institutions grew aggressively through poorly executed acquisition and integration strategies that made effective management more challenging. 
Too often, risk management became risk justification. 
Often, those systems encouraged the big betwhere the payoff on the upside could be huge and the downside limited. 
Our examination revealed stunning instances of governance breakdowns and irresponsibility. 
We conclude a combination of excessive borrowing, risky investments, and lack of transparency put the financial system on a collision course with crisis. 
In the years leading up to the crisis, too many financial institutions, as well as too many households, borrowed to the hilt, leaving them vulnerable to financial distress or ruin if the value of their investments declined even modestly. 
By one measure, their leverage ratios were as high as 40 to 1, meaning for every $40 in assets, there was only $1 in capital to cover losses. 
To make matters worse, much of their borrowing was short-term, in the overnight marketmeaning the borrowing had to be renewed each and every day. 
It was the equivalent of a small business with $50,000 in equity borrowing $1.6 million, with $296,750 of that due each and every day. 
And the leverage was often hiddenin derivatives positions, in off-balance-sheet entities, and through window dressing of financial reports available to the investing public. 
For example, by the end of 2007, Fannies and Freddies combined leverage ratio, including loans they owned and guaranteed, stood at 75 to 1. 
When the housing downturn hit, heavily indebted financial firms and families alike were walloped. 
As the mortgage and real estate markets churned out riskier and riskier loans and securities, many financial institutions loaded up on them. 
And again, the risk wasnt being taken on just by the big financial firms, but by families, too. 
In the early part of the 20th century, we erected a series of protections the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort, federal deposit insurance, ample regulationsto provide a bulwark against the panics that had regularly plagued Americas banking system in the 19th century. 
Key components of the marketfor example, the multitrillion-dollar repo lending market, off-balance- sheet entities, and the use of over-the-counter derivativeswere hidden from view, without the protections we had constructed to prevent financial meltdowns. 
We had reaped what we had sown. 
As part of our charge, it was appropriate to review government actions taken in response to the developing crisis, not just those policies or actions that preceded it, to determine if any of those responses contributed to or exacerbated the crisis. 
Other agencies were also behind the curve. 
This was in no small measure due to the lack of transparency in key markets. 
Some regulators have conceded this error. 
While there was some awareness of, or at least a debate about, the housing bubble, the record reflects that senior public officials did not recognize that a bursting of the bubble could threaten the entire financial system. 
When Bear Stearnss hedge funds, which were heavily invested in mortgage-related securities, imploded in June 2007, the Federal Reserve discussed the implications of the collapse. 
In addition, the governments inconsistent handling of major financial institutions during the crisisthe decision to rescue Bear Stearns and then to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, followed by its decision not to save Lehman Brothers and then to save AIGincreased uncertainty and panic in the market. 
We conclude there was a systemic breakdown in accountability and ethics. 
Unfortunatelyas has been the case in past speculative booms and bustswe witnessed an erosion of standards of responsibility and ethics that exacerbated the financial crisis. 
They resulted not only in significant financial consequences but also in damage to the trust of investors, businesses, and the public in the financial system. 
This data indicates they likely took out mortgages that they never had the capacity or intention to pay. 
The report catalogues the rising incidence of mortgage fraud, which flourished in an environment of collapsing lending standards and lax regulation. 
As early as September 2004, Countrywide executives recognized that many of the loans they were originating could result in catastrophic consequences. Less than a year later, they noted that certain high-risk loans they were making could result not only in foreclosures but also in financial and reputational catastrophe for the firm. 
And the report documents that major financial institutions ineffectively sampled loans they were purchasing to package and sell to investors. 
THESE CONCLUSIONS must be viewed in the context of human nature and individual and societal responsibility. 
As you read this report, you will see that specific firms and individuals acted irresponsibly. 
At the same time, the breadth of this crisis does not mean that everyone is at fault; many firms and individuals did not participate in the excesses that spawned disaster. 
These individuals sought and accepted positions of significant responsibility and obligation. 
THIS REPORT DESCRIBES THE EVENTS and the system that propelled our nation toward crisis. 
When housing prices fell and mortgage borrowers defaulted, the lights began to dim on Wall Street. 
Many mortgage lenders set the bar so low that lenders simply took eager borrowers qualifications on faith, often with a willful disregard for a borrowers ability to pay. 
During the same year, 68% of option ARM loans originated by Countrywide and Washington Mutual had low- or no-documentation requirements. 
As irresponsible lending, including predatory and fraudulent practices, became more prevalent, the Federal Reserve and other regulators and authorities heard warnings from many quarters. 
And the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision, caught up in turf wars, preempted state regulators from reining in abuses. 
It appeared to financial institutions, investors, and regulators alike that risk had been conquered: the investors held highly rated securities they thought were sure to perform; the banks thought they had taken the riskiest loans off their books; and regulators saw firms making profits and borrowing costs reduced. 
From the speculators who flipped houses to the mortgage brokers who scouted the loans, to the lenders who issued the mortgages, to the financial firms that created the mortgage-backed securities, collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), CDOs squared, and synthetic CDOs: no one in this pipeline of toxic mortgages had enough skin in the game. 
As it turned out, these losses were concentrated in a set of systemically important financial institutions. 
Its complexity has erected barriers to modifying mortgages so families can stay in their homes and has created further uncertainty about the health of the housing market and financial institutions. 
The enactment of legislation in 2000 to ban the regulation by both the federal and state governments of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives was a key turning point in the march toward the financial crisis. 
Yet, without any oversight, OTC derivatives rapidly spiraled out of control and out of sight, growing to $673 trillion in notional amount. 
OTC derivatives contributed to the crisis in three significant ways. 
CDS were sold to investors to protect against the default or decline in value of mortgage-related securities backed by risky loans. 
Second, CDS were essential to the creation of synthetic CDOs. 
They amplified the losses from the collapse of the housing bubble by allowing multiple bets on the same securities and helped spread them throughout the financial system. 
Synthetic CDOs created by Goldman referenced more than 3,400 mortgage securities, and 610 of them were referenced at least twice. 
The government ultimately committed more than $180 billion because of concerns that AIGs collapse would trigger cascading losses throughout the global financial system. 
We conclude the failures of credit rating agencies were essential cogs in the wheel of financial destruction. 
In some cases, they were obligated to use them, or regulatory capital standards were hinged on them. 
From 2000 to 2007, Moodys rated nearly 45,000 mortgage-related securities as triple-A. 
In 2006 alone, Moodys put its triple-A stamp of approval on 30 mortgage-related securities every working day. 
You will also read about the forces at work behind the breakdowns at Moodys, including the flawed computer models, the pressure from financial firms that paid for the ratings, the relentless drive for market share, the lack of resources to do the job despite record profits, and the absence of meaningful public oversight. 
THERE ARE MANY COMPETING VIEWS as to the causes of this crisis. 
Here we discuss three: capital availability and excess liquidity, the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the GSEs), and government housing policy. 
Low interest rates, widely available capital, and international investors seeking to put their money in real estate assets in the United States were prerequisites for the creation of a credit bubble. 
These government-sponsored enterprises had a deeply flawed business model as publicly traded corporations with the implicit backing of and subsidies from the federal government and with a public mission. 
In 2005 and 2006, they decided to ramp up their purchase and guarantee of risky mortgages, just as the housing market was peaking. 
They suffered from many of the same failures of corporate governance and risk management as the Commission discovered in other financial firms. 
We conclude that these two entities contributed to the crisis, but were not a primary cause. 
The GSEs participated in the expansion of subprime and other risky mortgages, but they followed rather than led Wall Street and other lenders in the rush for fools gold. 
Those purchases represented 10.5% of non-GSE subprime mortgage-backed securities in 2001, with the share rising to 40% in 2004, and falling back to 28% by 2008. 
For example, data compiled by the Commission for a subset of borrowers with similar credit scores--scores below 600--show that by the end of 2008, GSE mortgages were far less likely to be seriously delinquent than were non-GSE securitized mortgages: 6.2% versus 28.3%. 
Based on the evidence and interviews with dozens of individuals involved in this subject area, we determined these goals only contributed marginally to Fannies and Freddies participation in those mortgages. 
These policies were put in place and promoted by several administrations and Congressesindeed, both Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. 
In conducting our inquiry, we took a careful look at HUDs affordable housing goals, as noted above, and the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). 
The CRA requires banks and savings and loans to lend, invest, and provide services to the communities from which they take deposits, consistent with bank safety and soundness. 
Many subprime lenders were not subject to the CRA. 
Loans made by CRA-regulated lenders in the neighborhoods in which they were required to lend were half as likely to default as similar loans made in the same neighborhoods by independent mortgage originators not subject to the law. 
WHEN THIS COMMISSION began its work 18 months ago, some imagined that the events of 2008 and their consequences would be well behind us by the time we issued this report. 
Our financial system is, in many respects, still unchanged from what existed on the eve of the crisis. 
financial sector is now more concentrated than ever in the hands of a few large, systemically significant institutions. 
In our inquiry, we found dramatic breakdowns of corporate governance, profound lapses in regulatory oversight, and near fatal flaws in our financial system. 
These are serious matters that must be addressed and resolved to restore faith in our financial markets, to avoid the next crisis, and to rebuild a system of capital that provides the foundation for a new era of broadly shared prosperity. 
If we accept this notion, it will happen again. 
There is still much to learn, much to investigate, and much to fix. 
It falls to us to make different choices if we want different results. 
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED, George A. 
Goldway, Vice Chairman Dana B. 
SUMMARY This report provides an analysis of the United States Postal Service's current legal authority to: (1) introduce and provide new products and services; and (2) enter into negotiated service agreements with individual customers. 
The Commission's analysis of existing postal law yields the following conclusions:  The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 gives the United States Postal Service a clear mandate to innovate by developing effective and efficient services adapted to the needs of the Nation's mail users. 
 3623 through 3625. 
 Negotiated Service Agreements (NSAs) or "niche classifications" are rate and service adjustments arranged by the Postal Service and potential users that are legally permissible, provided that:  The proposal is reviewed in a public proceeding, as the Reorganization Act requires;  The agreed-upon rate and service changes will work to the mutual benefit of mail users and the postal system as a whole; and  The negotiated rate-and-service package is made available on the same terms to other potential users willing to meet the same conditions of service. 
BACKGROUND AND SCOPE OF ANALYSIS In joint deliberations on appropriations for the United States Postal Service and certain other agencies and departments for Fiscal Year 2002, the committee of conference directed both the Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission to prepare reports on particular areas of the Postal Service's authority under existing law.1 Specifically, the conferees directed: both the United States Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission to independently report, 90 days after enactment of this Act, on the scope of existing authority of the US Postal Service, under title 39, United States Code, and title 39, Code of Federal Regulations, to introduce and provide new products and services (including the introduction and provision of new products and service on an experimental or market test basis) and to enter into negotiated service agreements with individual customers or groups of customers. 
H. 
CONF. 
NO. 
L. 
107-67, 115 Stat. 
Commission proceedings in which the Postal Service has sought to introduce service innovations-some of them customized for particular groups of mailers-on an expedited basis. 
POSTAL SERVICE AUTHORITY TO DEVELOP, INTRODUCE AND PROVIDE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES A. 
Section 101(a) of Title 39 establishes the Postal Service's paramount obligation "to provide postal services to bind the Nation together through the personal, educational, literary, and business correspondence of the people." The same section establishes the performance criterion that the Postal Service is expected to achieve as a matter of postal policy: "It shall provide prompt, reliable, and efficient services to patrons in all areas and . 
. 
2 Former 39 U.S.C. 
B. 
. 
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter." Section 3623(a) directs the Postal Service to file a request with the Postal Rate Commission for a recommended decision on establishing a mail classification schedule within two years of the Reorganization Act's effective date. 
39 U.S.C. 
The Commission's procedural rules governing proposed changes in the mail classification schedule are contained in Subpart C of title 39 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 39 C.F.R. 
Part 3001, following 39 C.F.R. 
MC73-1, Phase I, Opinion and Recommended Decision, April 15, 1976; accepted in Decision of the Governors of the United States Postal Service on Establishing a Mail Classification Schedule, June 2, 1976. 
Less frequently, the Commission has begun proceedings on its own initiative, most commonly in response to a mail user's request to do so. 
Conclusion: The joint authority shared by the Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission under the Reorganization Act to adopt new mail classifications is the mechanism for implementing innovations in domestic mail service. 
Commission Procedures Adapted to the Expeditious Consideration of Proposed Service Innovations Recognizing that certain types of proposed service innovations merit consideration under specialized procedures, the Commission has adopted several sets of rules that are customized for defined categories of Postal Service requests. 
The Commission determined almost twenty years ago that there was a need for specialized rules to facilitate Postal Service mail classification requests involving proposed new services, or changes in existing services, that were intended to serve as experiments. 
 3001.67 through .67d, provide a mechanism for limiting the issues on which a trial-type hearing is required; allow the Postal Service to explain the unavailability of data that would otherwise have to be filed; and provide for data collection for the duration of the experiment. 
The fourth set specifies conditions under which the Service may use multi-year test periods to demonstrate that a proposed new service will become compensatory over time. 
The rules specify the limited information the Service is required to file in support of a proposed market test, including a plan for testing the proposed new service and associated data collection and reporting requirements. 
The Postal Service's innovative Mailing Online service, for which a three-year experimental trial was requested and approved in Docket No. 
See the Appendix to this report under the heading for Docket No. 
The second set of rules,8 apply to Postal Service proposals to implement new services that would supplement, but not alter, existing mail classifications and rates on a provisional basis for a limited time. 
7 39 C.F.R. 
8 39 C.F.R. 
A third set of rules, adopted as sections 69 through 69c of the rules of practice,9 applies to Postal Service requests for permanent mail classification changes that are minor in character. 
The rules specify limited required supporting information, allow the Service to explain the unavailability of otherwise required data, and also streamline procedural scheduling. 
Finally, the fourth set of rules, contained in sections 181 and 182 of the rules of practice, 10 applies to Postal Service requests for new services that it believes cannot recover all their associated costs in the first full fiscal year of their operation. 
The Commission adopted these four sets of rules in 1996, to be effective for a period of five years. 
 3001.181-.182. 
1322, 66 Fed. 
54436 (2001). 
POSTAL SERVICE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO NEGOTIATED RATE AND SERVICE AGREEMENTS WITH INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS OR GROUPS OF CUSTOMERS TO PROVIDE SERVICES For a number of years, some mailers have pursued the idea of establishing customized postal rates and/or terms of service through negotiation with the Postal Service. 
Statutory Bases of Potential Authority No provision in existing law explicitly authorizes or prohibits the Postal Service from entering into rate or service agreements with mail users. 
However, other provisions in Title 39 cast into doubt the conclusion that the Service's authority under  401(3) is sufficiently broad to encompass changes in rates or mail classifications by agreement alone. 
From a procedural perspective, the legal soundness of rate or mail classification changes by contract alone is doubtful because the only means of making such changes recognized in the Reorganization Act are the procedures prescribed in Chapter 36 of Title 39. 
Failure to abide by the procedural requirements of Chapter 36 has been recognized as a sufficient legal basis for voiding the intended change.12 Negotiated rate or service changes also may run afoul of the substantive standards prescribed for rates and mail classifications in the Reorganization Act. 
However, assuming the procedural requirements of Chapter 36 are met, changes negotiated by the Postal Service and a mail user for their mutual benefit may merit recommendation under the applicable statutory standards. 
Regarding rates,  3622(b)(6) establishes "the degree of preparation of mail for delivery into the postal system performed by the mailer and its effect upon reducing costs to the Postal Service" as a factor to be considered in connection with a proposed change. 
U. 
Postal Service, 455 F.Supp. 
Pa. 
1979), cert. 
957 (1980). 
Problematical "Contract Rates" In a rulemaking proceeding conducted in the late 1980s at the request of a mailer, the Commission addressed the question of the Postal Service's authority to negotiate rate changes in the form of a proposal to recognize "contract rates." After considering comments of the Postal Service and other participants, the Commission found the proposal problematical, and declined to pursue it. 
RM89-5, included two variants: 1. 
The Postal Service and one or more mailers would negotiate a rate and service package which would then (i) be submitted to the Commission for a review, and (ii) thereafter be available on the same terms to all potential users. 
The Postal Service commented that, in its view, legal constraints would not preclude a contract mechanism in principle, but that no such arrangement would be permissible without the Commission's participation in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 
Upon consideration of the initial comments it received, the Commission declined to pursue the contract rate proposal, but solicited further comments on several broad issues concerning possible changes in the mail classification system. 
It also raised the potential problems of unreasonable discrimination that such contracts might cause, in contravention of 39 U.S.C. 
Negotiated Service Agreements and Specialized "Niche Classifications" Following publication of the report of the joint Postal Service-Postal Rate Commission task force on ratemaking, the Postal Service petitioned the Commission to adopt rules to implement some of the report's recommendations. 
Reg. 
However, the Commission also expressed a general willingness to address the concept in a subsequent rulemaking. 
These procedures have been shown to be well suited to the consideration of "niche classification" proposals. 
For example, the Commission approved a two-year experiment of a program that enabled users of bulk, nonletter-size Business Reply Mail such as photofinishers that could reliably determine postage and fees due, to obtain earlier access to their mail at revised fees.15 The Commission subsequently granted a requested extension of the experiment,16 and ultimately approved a request to make the experimental program a permanent mail classification.17 More recently, in Docket No. 
16 Docket No. 
17 Docket No. 
18 See the description of this proceeding in the Appendix. 
Examples of "niche classification" proposals recommended in recent Commission proceedings, and Postal Service product innovations considered in other cases, are described in the Appendix to this report. 
11, 2002 Page 1 of 2 Postal Service Product Innovations and Special-Purpose Mail Classification Changes Reviewed by the Postal Rate Commission Since January 1, 2000 Docket No. 
PRC decision approving settlement agreement transmitted to Postal Service Governors on May 25, 2001. 
Docket No. 
 Target users: Publishers who wish to include innovative advertisements in their periodicals at a more affordable rate than Standard A postage. 
 Procedural history: Request filed by Postal Service on September 27, 1999. 
PRC decision approving settlement agreement transmitted to Postal Service Governors on February 3, 2000. 
Action by Commission is pending. 
MC2001-3 on September 28, 2001. 
Report To The Congress Appendix Feb. 
MC2000-2-Mailing Online Experiment  Nature of service or change: Experimental service enabling computer users to transmit documents in electronic form to Postal Service for printing, processing, and delivery as Express Mail, First-Class Mail or Standard A Mail. 
 Rate(s) and justification: Applicable bulk mailing rate plus fee to recover costs of printing, technological resources, advertising and other program-related expenses. 
Hearings held December, 1999 through February, 2000. 
MC2001-2-Experimental Seasonal Delivery Confirmation Fee  Nature of service or change: Experiment to provide manual delivery confirmation without charge to retail Priority Mail users during two weeks before the peak of the holiday mailing season. 
 Rate(s) and justification: Delivery confirmation to be available at no charge to retail Priority Mail users during the early stages of the holiday season. 
Postal Service withdrew request on November 5, 2001 because the disruption of other events made conducting the experiment inadvisable. 
LSC management prides itself on thorough and effective monitoring of recipient activities and on its training of recipients with regard to compliance issues. 
Congress has mandated that LSC effectively monitor and audit its grant recipients, and that LSC respect attorney-client privilege and ensure that LSC recipients carry out their work consistent with their professional responsibilities. 
The Protocol is intended to set forth LSC's policy with respect to accessing grant recipients' files and to facilitate better communication and understanding on this topic. 
ACCESS TO RECORDS April 25, 2002 This document sets forth procedures to be used by LSC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement (OCE) and Office of Program Performance (OPP) when making requests to review documents that contain information about clients and their cases that may be protected from disclosure to LSC by the attorney-client privilege or the rules of professional responsibility. 
See Section 1006(b)(1)(A). 
However, the LSC Act recognizes that some records contain information that is protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney's ethical responsibilities under rules of professional responsibility. 
Legal Services of New York City, 249 F.3d 1077 (D.C. 
2001). 
PURPOSE The purpose of this document is to inform LSC recipients and other interested parties of the procedure for providing LSC access to records in a manner consistent with the attorney-client privilege and applicable rules of professional responsibility and the mechanism to resolve issues of how such access can be obtained. 
In addition, upon request, recipients must also provide LSC access to original unredacted client "statement of facts," as required by 45 CFR 1636. 
PROCEDURES 1. 
Such information will hereafter be referred to as privileged or confidential information. 
2. 
Each review is an ongoing process that may expand based on information reviewed. 
3. 
During on-site visits, OCE will affirmatively encourage recipients to use such intermediaries and will not request direct access to or control over client case files or any other records containing privileged or confidential information. 
Flexibility of Approaches: OCE shall consider and seek to accommodate reasonable approaches to access to records proposed by recipients to protect privileged or confidential information so long as such proposed approaches also ensure access by OCE to information it needs to carry out its responsibilities. 
5. 
A recipient shall notify OCE under the procedures set forth in section 7 below, that the information sought is, in the recipient's view, protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
Procedures for Addressing Privileged or Confidential Information: If a recipient believes that documents or information requested by OCE contain information that is protected by the attorney-client privilege, applicable rules of professional responsibility or other law, the recipient will send written notice to OCE as soon as possible setting forth (1) a full description of the nature of the privileged or confidential information, (2) a statement explaining the basis for determining that such information is privileged or confidential, and (3) any recommendations of reasonable approaches to accessing such information. 
If OCE is not able to expediently resolve all outstanding issues of concern, it will, through the Vice President for Administration, promptly so advise LSC's President and the Vice Presidents for Programs, Legal Affairs and Government Relations of the access issues raised and the specific reasons why the proposed alternative methods of access are inadequate. 
8. 
The Vice President for Programs will review the recommendation and make further inquiry as appropriate. 
If the Vice President for Programs determines that LSC should proceed to take action affecting the recipient, it shall notify the recipient in writing of the action that is proposed. 
However, if the action involves a sanction or adverse action other than termination or suspension, then LSC may, and is encouraged to, allow a recipient an opportunity to further present it's position. 
The recipient would be given an opportunity to request a meeting with the Vice President for Programs to ask for reconsideration of the proposed action. 
As soon thereafter as is practical, the Vice President for Programs would notify the recipient in writing of the recommendation to the President and the reasons therefore. 
The recipient would be given the opportunity to provide such additional written information as it believes will assist the President to fully and fairly consider its concerns and objections. 
As soon thereafter as practical, the LSC President would advise the recipient of the final decision and reasons therefore. 
9. 
10. 
These procedures do not create new rights or obligations for LSC or LSC recipients and may be modified by the LSC President as warranted, with appropriate notice to the Board and field programs. 
(For those with short attention spans, the Kursk was the submarine that blew up and sank in the Arctic Ocean killing all 118 on board.) The Russians tried to blame the incident on a collision with an unidentified object. 
A whistle-blower within the Russian military has leaked that the crew of the Kursk was testing a new type of torpedo when the accident occurred. 
While rescue efforts to save the survivors of the Kursk failed, salvage crews were able to recover a 'Black Box' from the submarine which recorded events leading up to the explosion. 
Seaman: Almost Sir. 
Captain: Excellent!. 
Look, it says "Preparing to run Windows for the first time". 
Sir, it wants me to reboot again. 
Captain: Hmmm. 
Go ahead and reboot again. 
-[another long pause] Seaman: Captain, it is up again. 
A CD-ROM drive and that it needs drivers. 
Seaman: On the CD-ROM. 
Seaman: No Sir. 
I am starting not to like this Windows. 
It is back! 
Do we have a driver disk? 
Seaman: I will tell it to use the default drivers. 
This is taking forever. 
-[another long pause] Seaman: Sir! 
No registration cards? 
Seaman: No Sir. 
Captain: Good work. 
Seaman: Clicking now, Sir. 
Seaman: I have no idea Sir. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. 
Captain: We will Spam a friend later. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. 
Captain: Torpedo room, load a torpedo in tube number 1! 
The torpedo is loaded Sir. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. 
Damn! 
Captain: Click ignore. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. 
Seaman: Firing torpedo Sir. 
Seaman: I am trying Sir. 
Wait a minute.... 
Seaman: Captain! 
Outlook Express Fire Control has performed an illegal operation and will be shut down. 
Seaman: Oh my God! 
What should I do? 
Captain: Try 'CTRL-ALT-DELETE'! 
We are in luck! 
Captain: Well no **** . 
Seaman: Nothing is happening Sir. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. 
What a pretty blue screen! 
Not the blue screen of dea.... 
- A really big explosion. 
During the weeklong rescue effort, divers reported hearing tapping in the form of Morse code coming from survivors inside the damaged sub. 
One soldier pondered, "Does it bother anyone here that the Army doesn't care how well we can shoot, but they seem to be extremely interested in how fast we can run?" REDNECK COMPUTER TERMS BACKUP - What you do when you run across a skunk in the woods. 
BUG - The reason you give for calling in sick. 
TERMINAL - Time to call the undertaker. 
DIGITAL - The art of counting on your fingers. 
FAX - What you lie about to the IRS. 
HARDCOPY - Picture looked at when selecting tattoos. 
KEYBOARD - Where you hang the keys to the John Deere. 
MOUSE PAD - Where Mickey and Minnie live. 
ONLINE - Where to stay when taking the sobriety test. 
SERIAL PORT - A red wine you drink after breakfast. 
SCSI - What you call your week-old underwear. 
Airline Joke. 
On behalf of my crew I'd like to welcome you aboard 747 flight 602 from New York to London. 
If you look out of the windows on the port side, you will observe that the port wing has fallen off." "If you look back down towards the Atlantic ocean, you will see a tiny little yellow life raft with three people in it waving at you. 
This is a recorded message. 
READ ON........ 
A couple in Sweetwater, Texas had a lot of potted plants, and during a recent cold spell, the wife was bringing a lot of them indoors to protect them from a possible freeze. 
She let out a very loud scream. 
She told him there was a snake under the sofa. 
About that time the family dog came and cold-nosed him on the leg. 
His wife thought he had a heart attack, so she called an ambulance. 
About that time the snake came out from under the sofa and the Emergency Medical Technician saw it and dropped his end of the stretcher. 
The wife still had the problem of the snake in the house, so she called on a neighbor man. 
He armed himself with a rolled-up newspaper and began poking under the couch. 
But in relaxing, her hand dangled in between the cushions, where she felt the snake wriggling around. 
The neighbor's wife, who had just returned from shopping at the grocery store, saw her husband's mouth on the woman's mouth and slammed her husband in the back of the head with a bag of canned goods, knocking him out and cutting his scalp to a point where it needed stitches. 
The noise woke the woman from her dead faint and she saw her neighbor lying on the floor with his wife bending over him, so she assumed he had been bitten by the snake. 
They were about to arrest them all, when the two women tried to explain how it all happened over a little green snake. 
He missed the snake and hit the leg of the end table that was on one side of the sofa. 
The other policeman tried to beat out the flames and fell through the window into the yard on top of the family dog, who startled, jumped up and raced out into the street, where an oncoming car swerved to avoid it and smashed into the parked police car and set it on fire. 
Time passed... 
The husband asked his wife if she thought they should bring in their plants for the night. 
Sadie: I know what I need, write for me please the prescription. 
Sadie: I feel wonderful. 
Thank you for the pills. 
Sadie: Listen to me. 
Collectibles Showing his friend around his home, Myrddin started to point out all of the collectibles he and his wife had acquired over their long years of marriage. 
"They taught us all the latest psychological techniques-visualization, association - it has made a big difference for me." "That's great! 
He thought and thought but couldn't remember. 
Questions A veterinarian was feeling ill and went to see her doctor. 
Of course, if that doesn't work, then we'll just have to have you put to sleep." Rare Pottery In front of a delicatessen, an art connoisseur noticed a mangy little kitten lapping up milk from a saucer. 
He strolled into the store and offered two dollars for the cat. 
"Look," said the collector, "that cat is dirty and undesirable, but I'm eccentric. 
"The kitten seems so happy drinking from it." "Nothing doing," said the proprietor firmly. 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4"> <text> <body> <head type="title">Offbeat Joke</head> <p> A musician who joined an orchestra on a cruise ship was having a terrible time keeping time with the rest of the band. 
It's up to you, sync or swim." The Human Race Is Doomed In case you needed further proof that the Human Race is doomed through stupidity, here are some actual label instructions on consumer products; 1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
(Sensible, but the instruction was INSIDE the box.) 7. 
WHILE INSERTING POSCOOL FOR APPROXIMATELY 5 MINUTES, KEEP QUIET. 
In some countries, on the bottom of Coke bottles - OPEN OTHER END. 
On a packet of Sunmaid raisins - WHY NOT TRY TOSSING OVER YOUR FAVOURITE BREAKFAST CEREAL? 
On a Sears hairdryer - DO NOT USE WHILE SLEEPING. 
DETAILS INSIDE. 
On Tesco's Tiramisu dessert (printed on bottom of the box) DO NOT TURN UPSIDE DOWN. 
You lose!) 14. 
(Are you sure? 
On a Korean kitchen knife - WARNING KEEP OUT OF CHILDREN. 
Who are they to tell me what to do with my kids?) 16. 
(As opposed to....?) 17. 
(Now I'm curious.) 18. 
(Really? 
On an American Airlines packet of nuts INSTRUCTIONS - OPEN PACKET, EAT NUTS. 
On a Swedish chainsaw - DO NOT ATTEMPT TO STOP CHAIN WITH YOUR HANDS OR GENITALS. 
On a child's superman costume - WEARING OF THIS GARMENT DOES NOT ENABLE YOU TO FLY. 
On some frozen dinners SERVING SUGGESTION: DEFROST. 
On a hotel provided shower cap in a box FITS ONE HEAD. 
On packaging for a Rowenta iron DO NOT IRON CLOTHES ON BODY. 
On Boot's "Children's" cough medicine DO NOT DRIVE CAR OR OPERATE MACHINERY. 
On Nytol sleep aid WARNING MAY CAUSE DROWSINESS. 
</head> <p>Scholars have long debated the exact ethnicity and nationality of Jesus. 
His first name was Jesus 2. 
He was always being harassed by the authorities</p> <p> But then there were equally good arguments that... 
He couldn't get a fair trial </p> <p> Then there were equally good arguments that... 
He went into His Father's business 2. 
He talked with his hands 2. 
He used olive oil</p> <p> Then there were equally good arguments that... 
He never cut his hair 2. 
He started a new religion</p> <p> Then there were equally good arguments that... 
He never got married 2. 
1. 
He kept trying to get the message across to a bunch of men who JUST DIDN'T GET IT. 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4"> <text> <body> <head type="title">Dam it..</head> <p> "No, I didn't actually build this one," said the beaver to the rabbit, as they stared up at the immense bulk of the Hydro-Electric Power Dam, "but it's based on an idea of mine." </p> <head type="title">DUMB SPORTS QUOTES </head> <p>"And here's Moses Kiptanui, the 19 year old Kenyan, who turned 20 a few weeks ago." (David Coleman) "Its a great advantage to be able to hurdle with both legs" (David Coleman) Jimmy Hill: "Don't sit on the fence Terry. 
It gives you an indication of how fast they are running." (Ron Pickering) "That's inches away from being millimeter perfect." (Ted Lowe) "The Queen's Park Oval, exactly as its name suggests, is absolutely round." (Tony Crozier) </p> <head type="title">How's that again??</head> <p>In the Opera 'Tosca', Mario (under sentence of death) sings this song. 
Yes?? 
A footstep brushed the sand and my lover, who smells, tripped and I caught her. 
My dream of love is vanished forever, that time is gone and my despair is killing me. 
</p> <head type="title">New Commandments</head> <p>The following statements about the Bible were written by children and have not been retouched or corrected. 
The seventh commandment is thou shalt not admit adultery. 
A Christian should have only one spouse. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
He fought with the Finklesteins, a race of people who lived in Biblical times. 
Solomon, one of David's sons, had 300 wives, and 700 porcupines. 
Jesus was born because Mary had an immaculate contraption. 
One day as she was stepping onto the elevator, a man casually dressed in jeans and a golf shirt got on with her. 
Helen said, "Amanda, I must ask you something. 
And yet, I see you looking as fresh as a rose. 
Asleep for nearly 6 months, when she wakes up she sees that she is no longer pregnant and frantically asks the doctor about her baby. 
a boy and a girl. 
he's an idiot!" She asks the doctor, "Well, what's the girl's name?" "Denise." Wow, that's not a bad name, I like it! 
Irish search and rescue workers have recovered 826 bodies so far and expect that number to climb as digging continues into the night.</p> <head type="title">Now hear this ...</head> <p> Duct tape is like the Force. 
It's not important unless you aren't getting any. 
Never test the depth of the water with both feet. 
If you think nobody cares if you're alive, try missing a couple of car payments. 
Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. 
If you lend someone $20, and never see that person again, it was probably worth it. 
Timing has an awful lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance. 
Neither one works. 
And, finally, never play leap frog with a unicorn. 
To put it simply, if the complexity of the human brain was simple enough to be understood, it would then be far too simple to understand the simplicity, do you understand? 
But we atheists," he said, "have no recognized national holidays. 
Why don't you celebrate April first?" Skydiving Liam had left Dublin to go up to Belfast for a bit of skydiving. 
"What happened?" said the farmer. 
"Well," said the farmer, "if you had of asked the locals before you jumped, they would have told you nothing opens here on a Sunday." This is Heaven This 85 year old couple, having been married almost 60 years, had died in a car crash. 
As they "oohed and aahed" the old man asked Peter how much all this was going to cost. 
This is heaven, it is free!" Peter replied with some exasperation. 
Peter lectured, "That's the best part...you can eat as much as you like of whatever you like and you never get fat and you never get sick. 
Peter and his wife both tried to calm him down, asking him what was wrong. 
If it weren't for your darn bran muffins, I could have been here ten years ago!" Age I am sitting here thinking how nice it is that wrinkles don't hurt. 
She claimed she heard a noise in her back yard and went to investigate. 
An officer was sent to her house to investigate, and he returned 1-1/2 hours later with a black eye. 
"No," he replied. 
He was concerned about what might happen in an emergency. 
Pretend that I am having a heart attack. 
That evening, the wife walked into the living room where her husband was watching television. 
"Sit, Fluffy," she says. 
The woman, mortally embarrassed, shouts, "Fluffy, will you be good?!" Fluffy then starts a fight with a Doberman and pursues it out of the office. 
Attendance in at least 10 of the following is required. 
Combating Stupidity 2. 
PMS - Learn When To Keep Your Mouth Shut 4. 
We Do Not Want Sleazy Underwear For Christmas (Just Give Us Credit Cards) 6. 
Wonderful Laundry Techniques (formerly called "Don't Wash My Silks") 8. 
Get A Life - Learn To Cook 10. 
Spelling - Even You Can Get It Right 12. 
You, The Weaker Sex 14. 
How To Stay Awake After Sex 16. 
Garbage - Getting It To The Curb 18. 
You Cannot Always Wear Whatever You Damn Well Please 20. 
Give Me A Break - Why We Know Your Excuses Are Often Bull 22. 
The Remote Control - Overcoming Your Dependency 24. 
Helpful Posture Hints For Couch Potatoes 26. 
The Weekend And Sports Are Not Synonymous 28. 
You Don't Look Like Mel Gibson, Especially When Naked 32. 
33. 
One day he made the teacher quite surprised. 
"I don't want to scare you, but my daddy says if I don't get better grades... 
Mace had a bad habit of eating all the grass in the mechanic's lawn, so the mechanic had to keep Mace inside. 
One day the mechanic was working on a car in his back yard and dropped his wrench losing it in the tall grass. 
That night Mace escaped from the house and ate all the grass in the back yard. 
Realizing what had happened he looked up the the heavens and proclaimed...... 
* If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you. 
* Psychiatrists say that 1 of 4 people are mentally ill. 
* A truly wise man never plays leapfrog with a unicorn. 
* Always remember to pillage BEFORE you burn. 
COROLLARY: If you are given a take-home test, you will forget where you live. 
* It may be that your sole purpose in life is simply to serve as a warning to others. 
* Paranoids are people, too; they have their own problems. 
* A diplomat is someone who can tell you to go to hell and make you feel happy to be on your way. 
* Law of Probability Dispersal: Whatever it is that hits the fan will not be evenly distributed. 
I was down to my last nickel. 
I spent the entire day polishing the apple and, at the end of the day, I sold the apple for ten cents. 
I spent the entire day polishing them and sold them at 5:00 pm for 20 cents. 
Then my wife's father died and left us two million dollars." </p> <head type="title">The New Hunter</head> <p>It was Saturday morning as Jake, an avid hunter, woke up ready to go bag the first deer of the season. 
Jake asked her, "What are you up to?" Alice smiled. 
Later they arrived at the hunting site. 
Not 10 minutes passed when he was startled as he heard an array of gunshots. 
As Jake got closer to her stand, he heard Alice screaming: "Get away from my deer!" Confused, Jake raced faster towards his screaming wife. 
Now within sight of where he had left his wife, Jake was surprised to see a cowboy, with his hands high in the air. 
You can have your deer!!! 
She was unfailingly intrigued by the various appliances of old age, particularly the canes, walkers and wheelchairs. 
None could be found. 
He successfully raised a number of them, and when he went about Paris selling them, a restaurant owner asked him where he got such fresh rabbits. 
In fact, I have ... 
Sure enough, after the usual mumbo-jumbo of calling to the spirits, her husband's voice was heard answering, "Helloooooo Margaret, this is meeee..." "Fred," she answered. 
What's it like there?" "Ooooooh, it's much more beautiful here than I ever imagined," Fred answered. 
And the only thing we do, all day long, are eat and sleep, eat and sleep, oooover and oooooooover." "Thank God, you made it to heaven," his wife cried. 
It's a conditioned response. 
IT'S JUST THAT I HAVE THINGS ON MY MIND" Translation: "I was wondering if that redhead over there is wearing a bra." "TAKE A BREAK HONEY, YOU'RE WORKING TOO HARD" Translation: "I can't hear the game over the vacuum cleaner" "THAT'S INTERESTING DEAR" Translation: "Are you still talking?" "YOU KNOW HOW BAD MY MEMORY IS" Translation: "I remember the theme song to F Troop, the address of the first girl I ever kissed and the vehicle identification numbers of every car I've ever owned,.... 
I KNOW EXACTLY WHERE WE ARE." Translation: "No one will ever see us alive again." "WE SHARE THE HOUSEWORK" Translation: "I make the messes, she cleans them up." </p> <head type="title"></head> <p>The Letter This is an actual letter sent to a bank in the US. 
Dear Sir, I am writing to thank you for bouncing the cheque with which I endeavoured to pay my plumber last month. 
I refer, of course, to the automatic monthly deposit of my entire salary, an arrangement which, I admit, has only been in place for eight years. 
My thankfulness springs from the manner in which this incident has caused me to re-think my errant financial ways. 
No more will our relationship be blighted by these unpleasant incidents, for I am restructuring my affairs in 2000, taking as my model the procedures, attitudes and conduct of your very bank. 
To this end, please be advised about the following: First, I have noticed that whereas I personally attend to your telephone calls and letters, when I try to contact you I am confronted by the impersonal, ever-changing, pre-recorded, faceless entity which your bank has become. 
Please find attached an Application Contact Status which I require your chosen employee to complete. 
Please note that all copies of his or her medical history must be countersigned by a Justice of the Peace, and that the mandatory details of his/her financial situation (income, debts, assets and liabilities) must be accompanied by documented proof. 
I regret that it cannot be shorter than 28 digits but, again, I have modeled it on the number of button presses required to access my account balance on your phone bank service. 
Let me level the playing field even further by introducing you to my new telephone system, which you will notice, is very much like yours. 
By pressing Buttons on the phone, he/she will be guided through an extensive set of menus: 1. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
To leave a message a password to access my computer is required. 
9. 
While this may on occasion involve a lengthy wait, uplifting music will play for the duration. 
With a guard at every door ....... 
First, there is the matter of advertising material you send me. 
Enquiries from your nominated contact will be billed at $5 per minute of my time spent in response. 
My new phone service runs at 75 cents a minute (even Woody Guthrie doesn't come free), so you would be well advised to keep your enquiries brief and to the point. 
Name Your humble client. 
A: He said, "Where am I, Cathy?" Q: And why did that upset you? 
</p> <head type="title">Q: And where was the location of the accident?</head> <p>A: Approximately milepost 499. 
A: Probably between milepost 498 and 500. 
Q: Before the accident. 
Eventually I was an only child. 
"I can't read, I can't write - and they won't let me talk!" </p> <head type="title">Perspective View</head> <p>"A Developer is someone who wants to build a house in the woods. 
"Do you remember that part in the Bible where it rained for 40 days and 40 nights?" The visitor replied, "Yes, I'm familiar with the account of Noah's flood." "Well," the rancher drawled, "we got nearly half an inch that year." </p> <head type="title">Entrepreneur </head> <p>A newsboy was standing on the corner with a his papers, yelling, "Read all about it. 
Fifty people swindled!" Curious, a man walked over, bought a paper, and checked the front page. 
The man said, "Hey, this is an old paper, where's the story about the big swindle?" The newsboy just ignored him and went on calling out, "Read all about it. 
Since it was totally dark, all she could see was the blinking wing-tip light. 
"I'm sorry to bother you," she said, "but I think you should inform the pilot that his left-turn indicator is on and has been for some time." </p> <head type="title">No Bull </head> <p>After much urging by his wife, Uncle Joe applied for work on a farm. 
An hour later Uncle Joe returned dirty and sweaty, the bucket in one hand and the broken stool in the other. 
</p> <head type="title">Bumper Sticker</head> <p>"Metaphors be with you." </p> <head type="title">Ergo.</head> <p>It's October, and an Indian chief thinks it's going to be a cold winter. 
To double-check his prediction, the chief calls the National Weather Service and asks a meteorologist if the winter is going to be a cold one. 
A week later he calls the National Weather Service again, and they confirm that a harsh winter is headed their way. 
Two weeks later he calls the National Weather Service again and asks, "Are you absolutely sure this winter is going to be very cold?" "Absolutely," the man replies. 
</head> <p>"The child had his mother's eyes, his mother's nose and his mother's mouth. 
(according to Robert Benchley) </p> <head type="title">Final Analysis</head> <p>When weeding, the best way to make quite that sure you are removing a weed and not a valuable plant, is to pull on it. 
</p> <head type="title">Quotes.</head> <p>"I understand life isn't fair, but why couldn't it just once be unfair in my favor?" (Christy Murphy) The pen is mightier than the sword, and considerably easier to write with." (Marty Feldman) </p> <head type="title">Well, well.</head> <p>A couple is taking a stroll in a lovely meadow when they come upon a wishing well. 
Her husband decides he wants to make a wish, also. 
The following dialog ensued: Proctor: I beg your pardon? 
Proctor: Sorry, no. 
I request and require that you bring me Cakes and Ale. 
Three weeks later, the same student was fined five pounds for not wearing a sword to the examination. 
Two small signs above the keys read "Hymns" and "Hearse." </p> <head type="title">Great Shape</head> <p>You're in incredible shape," the doctor said. 
"78!" replied the doctor. 
You look like a 60-year-old." "Well, my wife and I made a pact when we got married that whenever she got mad she would go into the kitchen and cool off and I would go outside for a walk to settle down." the man explained. 
"Well, I've lived pretty much of an outdoor life." </p> <head type="title">Factor X</head> <p>Noah opens up the great front doors on the ark and let all the animals out, telling them to "Go forth and multiply." He's closing them again when he notices that there are two snakes still sitting in a dark corner. 
You can go now. 
neither will you. 
Both of them failed to see why they had to go to bed when I was tired. 
So far today I have finished one hamburger, a cheese pizza and 2 bags of chips. 
</head> <p>"Never try to teach a pig to sing. 
When will my baby move? 
Q: What is the most common pregnancy craving? 
Q: What is the most reliable method to determine a baby's sex? 
Q: The more pregnant I get, the more often strangers smile at me. 
A: 'Cause you're fatter than they are. 
A: So what's your question? 
Is she right? 
Q: When is the best time to get an epidural? 
Q: Is there any reason I have to be in the delivery room while my wife is in labor? 
Q: Is there anything I should avoid while recovering from childbirth? 
Q: Do I have to have a baby shower? 
"Hey!" shouted the proprietor. 
The fisherman snatched up the snake and robbed him of his worm. 
An hour or so later the fisherman felt a tug at his pant leg. 
May be Sung to 'The Sound of Music'. 
Simpson. 
the stuff...that buys me beer... 
the guy that sells me beer... 
the guy... 
LA...... 
no thanks, I'm drinking beer... 
</p> <head type="title">You've got to be quick.</head> <p>"My mother buried three husbands, and two of them were just napping." --Rita Rudner </p> <head type="title">Dusty Answer</head> <p>"The day I worry about cleaning my house is the day they come out with a 'ride on' vacuum cleaner." </p> <head type="title">The Thief</head> <p>A man was in the habit of carrying an umbrella wherever he went. 
Looking at the six useless umbrellas in his umbrella stand he decided to take them all in and have them repaired. 
After a moment or two, the vet shook his head sadly and said, "I'm sorry, but your dog has passed away". 
You haven't done any testing on him or anything. 
In a few moments, he returned with a Labrador Retriever. 
After a considerable amount of sniffing, The Retriever sadly shook its head and barked. 
As had its predecessors, the cat sadly shook its head and meowed. 
The veterinarian handed the man a bill for 600 dollars. 
"600 dollars! 
</head> <p>A Tibetan housewife smelled something burning in the kitchen. 
What's black and blue, and floats in the Irish sea? 
The Englishman who told one too many Irish Jokes......... 
</head> <p>This is a bricklayer's accident report, which was printed in the newsletter of the British equivalent of the Workers' Compensation Board. 
am a bricklayer by trade. 
When I completed my work, I found I had some bricks left over, which, when weighed later, were found to be slightly in excess of 500lbs. 
Securing the rope at ground level, I went up to the roof, I swung the barrel out and loaded the bricks into it. 
You will note in Block 11 of the accident report form that I weigh 135lbs. 
Needless to say, I proceeded at a rapid rate up the side of the building. 
This explains the fractured skull, minor abrasions and the broken collarbone, as listed in Section 3 of the accident report form. 
Fortunately by this time I had regained my presence of mind and was able to hold tightly to the rope, in spite of the excruciating pain I was now beginning to experience. 
Now devoid of the weight of the bricks, that barrel weighed approximately 50 lbs. 
As you might imagine, I began a rapid descent, down the side of the building. 
This accounts for the two fractured ankles, broken tooth and severe lacerations of my legs and lower body. 
The encounter with the barrel seemed to slow me enough to lessen my injuries when I fell into the pile of bricks and fortunately only three vertebrae were cracked. 
</p> <head type="title">Deep thoughts from comedian Steven Wright....... 
A train station is where a Train stops. 
If Fed Ex and UPS were to merge, would they call it Fed UP? 
I was thinking about how people seem to read the Bible a whole lot more as they get older, then it dawned on me...they were cramming for their finals... 
Toothpicks? 
What are we supposed to do . 
Why don't they just put their pictures on the postage stamps so the mailmen could look for them while they delivered the mail? 
If it's true that we are here to help others, then what exactly are the OTHERS here for? 
If you can't be kind, at least have the decency to be vague. 
I went for a walk last night and my kids asked me how long I'd be gone. 
After eating, do amphibians need to wait an hour before getting OUT of the water? 
I just got skylights put in my place. 
Is it true that cannibals don't eat clowns because they taste funny? 
Since light travels faster than sound, isn't that why some people appear bright until you hear them speak? 
If you take an Chinese person, close his eyes and spin him around several times, does he become disoriented? 
They were all out camping, when the Indian said "Me hungry me go find food." So he heads out. 
The Mexican says, "How you catch deer?" The Indian replied, "Me be very, very quiet, Me follow tracts, me shot, me catch deer." So the next day the Mexican went out he also returned later that night with a deer on his shoulder too. 
He returned the following day all black and blue. 
Interested in what the cheeky-faced youngster was up to, he politely asked, "What are you up to there, Tim?" "My goldfish died," replied Tim tearfully, without looking up, "and I've just buried him." The neighbor was concerned, "That's an awfully big hole for a goldfish, isn't it?" Tim patted down the last heap of earth then replied, "That's because he's inside your stupid cat." </p> <head type="title">Ups and downs</head> <p>A man is driving up a steep, narrow mountain road. 
As they pass each other, the woman leans out the window and yells, "PIG"! 
They each continue on their way, and as the man rounds the next corner he slams into the pig in the middle of the road. 
It takes 42 muscles to frown and only 17 to smile and I need the exercise! 
Going Down There were these two guys out hiking when they came upon an old, abandoned mineshaft. 
They went and got a bigger rock, threw it in and waited. 
While waiting for it to hit bottom, a goat suddenly darted between them and leapt into the hole! 
That couldn't be MY goat, my goat was tied to a railroad tie." ARGUMENTS A woman has the last word in any argument. 
SUCCESS A successful man is one who makes more money than his wife can spend. 
It has been proposed to strap giant slabs of hot buttered toast to the backs of hundreds of tethered cats; the two opposing forces will cause the cats to hover, spinning inches above the ground. 
Pardon Me? 
The pharmacist promptly reaches out and slaps the man's face. 
"What is it made of?" she asked. 
"I suppose," she said patronizingly, "that they mean as much to you as pearls do to us." "Oh no," he objected. 
He could swim, but his fear of alligators kept him clinging to the overturned craft. 
As he got closer to shore he shouted to the guy again "What did you do to get rid of the 'gators?" "We didn't do nothin'," the beachcomber said. 
You see, we're celebrating the fifth anniversary of my wife's thirty-ninth birthday..." Signs Over a gynecologist's office: "Dr. 
Call your plumber." Pizza shop slogan: "7 days without pizza makes one weak." Outside a muffler shop: "No appointment necessary. 
Sit! 
Push. 
"Somebody recently figured out that we have enacted more than 35 million laws just to enforce the Ten Commandments." --Bert Masterson Pistol Packing Momma! 
He squealed with delight and headed for the nearest sink. 
I turned to Mom and said, "I'm surprised at you. 
Not long ago, when I requested his ladder, he told me he had lent it to his son. 
It's my dad's." Not Strait Laced I was sitting on the sofa with my teenage son, discussing his day at school. 
So, could I get a new pair of sneakers?" More of life's mysteries! 
Why is "abbreviated" such a long word? 
Why is it called lipstick if you can still move your lips? 
Why is it that rain drops but snow falls? 
Why is the man who invests all your money called a broker? 
He answered, "3 were on a beer can and 2 were on the phone." Hare Hare A young man was something of a slacker and found it difficult to hold down a job. 
When he arrived for his first day, the keeper, aware of his reputation, told him to take care of the tortoise section. 
"Where are the tortoises?" he asked. 
Yogurt is one of only three foods that taste exactly the same as they sound. 
Ask and you shall receive All my life I said I wanted to be somebody...I can see now that I should have been more specific. 
One ambitious young man knocked on a door and a sour-faced, older lady came to the door and barked out, "What do you want, Sonny?" "D-d-do you have any beer bottles for the Boy Scouts, ma'am?" "Look here, young man, do I look like the kind of lady who would drink beer?" replied the lady. 
"W-w-what about vinegar bottles?" Definition Miser: A person who lives poor so that he can die rich. 
Room Service (RS): Morny. 
Guest (G): Sorry, I thought I dialed room-service. 
Djewish to odor sunteen?? 
I'd like some bacon and eggs. 
G: What? 
Pry, boy, pooch? 
How do I like them? 
RS: Hokay. 
G: What? 
July San tos? 
Judo one toes?? 
toes! 
Ow bow singlish mopping we bother? 
I've got it! 
Yes, an English muffin will be fine. 
G: I mean butter--just put it on the side. 
G: Sorry? 
G: Yes. 
RS: One Minnie. 
G: Whatever you say. 
G: You're welcome. 
A jeweller watched as a huge truck pulled up in front of his store. 
It broke one of the windows with its tusk and then, using its trunk like a vacuum cleaner sucked up all of the jewellery. 
When the jeweller finally regained his senses he called the police. 
"Could you describe the elephant?" the cop asked. 
"You've seen one you've seen them all. 
The Indian elephant has smaller ears and is not as large as the African elephant." "I can't help you out," said the frustrated jeweller, "he had a stocking pulled over his head." Fowl Pun. 
"Yes sir," replied the farmer. 
THREE- I finally got my head together; now my body is falling apart. 
FOUR- Funny, I don't remember being absent minded... 
SIX- If all is not lost, where is it? 
EIGHT- Some days you're the dog; some days you're the hydrant. 
TEN- Kids in the back seat cause accidents. 
TWELVE- It's hard to make a comeback when you haven't been anywhere. 
FOURTEEN- If God wanted me to touch my toes, he would have put them on my knees. 
SEVENTEEN- The only difference between a rut and a grave is the depth. 
NINETEEN- I AM UNABLE TO REMEMBER IF I HAVE MAILED THIS TO YOU BEFORE OR NOT! 
Ask and Ye Shall Receive One day, three men were hiking and unexpectedly came upon a large raging, violent river. 
The first man prayed to God, saying, "Please God, give me the strength to cross this river". 
and the intelligence. 
And poof! 
She looked at the map, hiked upstream a couple of hundred yards, then walked across the bridge. 
Dogs have owners. 
If you're too open-minded, your brains will fall out. 
My idea of housework is to sweep the room with a glance. 
A conscience is what hurts when all your other parts feel so good. 
Someone who thinks logically provides a nice contrast to the real world. 
The animal cried piteously for hours as the farmer tried to figure out what to do. 
At first, the donkey realised what was happening and cried horribly. 
He would shake it off and take a step up. 
Pretty soon, everyone was amazed as the donkey stepped up over the edge of the well and thoroughly kicked the guy that tried to bury him before trotting off! 
The trick to getting out of the well is to shake it off and take a step up. 
We can get out of the deepest wells just by not stopping, never giving up! 
Moral: When you try to cover your ass, it will usually come back to get you Good Advice: The Japanese eat very little fat and suffer fewer heart attacks than the British or Americans. 
Conclusion: Eat and drink what you like. 
Right On. 
Monogamy is the same." Oscar Wilde "When I die, I want to die like my grandfather who died peacefully in his sleep. 
I promised a friend I would meet him an hour ago, but I don't know where I am." The woman below replied, "You're in a hot air balloon hovering approximately 30 feet above the ground. 
"I am," replied the woman, "How did you know?" "Well," answered the balloonist, "everything you told me is, technically correct, but I've no idea what to make of your information, and the fact is I'm still lost. 
If anything, you've delayed my trip." The woman below responded, "You must be in Management." "I am," replied the balloonist, "but how did you know?" "Well," said the woman, "you don't know where you are or where you're going. 
The bartender says, "Get out of here with that dog!" The guy says, "But this isn't just any dog... 
The bartender asks the guy, "What was that all about?" The guy replies, "Oh, that was his mother. 
Dead Right A hospital posted a notice in the nurses' station saying: "Remember, the first five minutes of a human being's life are the most dangerous." And written underneath was, "The last few are pretty risky, too...." It Ain't Fair I've never understood why women love cats. 
In other words, all those things that women hate in a man, they love in a cat. 
One turns to the other and says, "Boy, you'll never get ME up in one of them things." Give it Eleven "The English are not very spiritual people, so they invented cricket to give themselves some idea of eternity." -George Bernard Shaw How's That? 
"Every teenager should get a good high school education; even if they already know everything." Right on, Dad. 
Is it ignorance or apathy?' He said, "Man, I don't know and I don't care." Revelation or Evolution One day, an ape escaped from the Zoo. 
They announced his disappearance on the radio and television as well as in the newspapers, but no one reported seeing the ape. 
The ape was reading with great concentration. 
When the zookeepers asked the ape what he was doing, the ape replied, "I'm trying to figure out whether I am my brother's keeper or my keeper's brother." Stretched Truth. 
When asked his occupation, the first guy said, "Panty stitcher...I sew the elastic onto women's panties." The clerk looked up panty stitcher. 
The second guy was asked his occupation. 
Diesel fitter is listed as a skilled job, so the clerk gave the second guy $600 a week. 
He stormed into the office to find out why his friend and co-worker was collecting double his pay. 
"I sew the elastic on and then he stretches it out tight and decides, Yep, dese'll fit 'er." Unsettled ! 
Finding their peace and quiet disturbed by well-meaning, but unwelcome, visits from other campers, they devised a plan to assure themselves some privacy. 
Ask about our whole of life package." Detail A man walked by a table in a hotel and noticed three men and a dog playing cards. 
"Every time he gets a good hand he wags his tail." Sounds Fine to me. 
"Keep it," the cop said, "then when you've collected four of them you get a bicycle." Going, going. 
He says that if it is returned, he will pay a reward of $2,000." There was a moment's silence, and then from the back of the room came the cry, "Two, five!" No Sweat This guy says to his buddy, "You'll never believe what happened last night." His buddy says, "Well then, tell me what happened." The guy says, "Last night the doorbell rang, and when I opened the door, there was my ex-mother-in-law on the front porch." She said, "Can I stay here for a few days?" I said, "Sure, of course you can," and shut the door. 
The guy who invented the other three, HE was a genius." -Sid Caesar Fact and Fallacy Actions speak louder than words but the pen is mightier than the sword. 
Many hands make light work while too many cooks spoil the broth. 
Nothing ventured, nothing gained, is better safe than sorry. 
Absence makes the heart grow fonder, out of sight, out of mind. 
Forewarned is forearmed so cross your bridges when you come to them. 
With age comes wisdom and out of the mouths of babes come all wise sayings. 
Don't tell people everything you know. 
For Thought "Misers aren't much fun to live with, but they do make wonderful ancestors." - David Brenner One Way To Get It In The Neck "Most people are pretty scared of werewolves, but I bet if you saw one crying because the other wolves had made fun of him, you'd be like me and would probably feel sorry for him and try to pet him." "That was my first mistake." --Unknown Under Done Did you hear about the cheap skate vampire hunter? 
The clergyman teed up, addressed the ball, and swung his driver with great force...slicing the ball deep into the woods. 
His opponent watched him for a while and then remarked, "Reverend, that's the most profane silence I have ever heard." Child Psychology A teen-aged boy with spiked hair, nose ring and baggy clothes was overheard telling a friend, "I don't really like to dress like this, but it keeps my parents from dragging me everywhere with them." Imprinting Deep within a forest a little turtle began to climb a tree. 
Finally, the female bird turned to her mate. 
Men want to be really, really close to someone who will leave them alone." --Elayne Boosle"Men who have pierced ears are better prepared for marriage. 
Clean Joke Waiter: "Tea or coffee, gentlemen?" 1st customer: "I'll have tea." 2nd customer: "Me, too. 
A: All of his feathers are combed to one side. 
Barbie's full name is Barbara Millicent Roberts 2. 
A crocodile can't stick its tongue out 4. 
It is physically impossible for pigs to look up into the sky 8. 
Between 1937 and 1945 Heinz produced a version of Alphabetti Spaghetti especially for the German market that consisted solely of little pasta swastikas 10. 
On average, a human being will have sex more than 3,000 times and spend two weeks kissing in their lifetime 12. 
Rats and horses can't vomit 14. 
If you sneeze too hard, you can fracture a rib. 
If you keep your eyes open by force, they will pop out 16. 
Wearing headphones for just an hour will increase the bacteria in your ear by 700 times 18. 
citizens to have any contact with extraterrestrials or their vehicles? 
In every episode of Seinfeld there is a Superman somewhere 20. 
Thirty-five percent of the people who use personal ads for dating are already married 22. 
Most lipstick contains fish scales 26. 
From Ashes to Ashes Two widows were visiting in the lounge of the Seniors' Center. 
"Some of us can't find a husband, and others have husbands to burn!" How To Wash the Cat 1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
8. 
First God gave the Pope his room; it was very small with a small bed and a small desk. 
Then God gave the lawyer his room; it was big room with a big bed and a big deck with a pool and a pretty woman. 
God, why are you giving this room to me and the other little one to The Pope?" the lawyer asked. 
A Zen master once said to me, "Do the opposite of whatever I tell you." So I didn't. 
The cousin smirked, "Well thatall depends on how fast ya carry it." Home on the Range Two buffalo were standing on the range when a passing tourist said, "Those are the mangiest, scroungiest, most moth-eaten, miserable beasts I have ever seen." One of the buffalo turned to the other and said, "You know, I think I just heard a discouraging word." Fast Thinking A wild dog is running through the jungle. 
The dog thinks, "Boy, now I'm in deep trouble." Then he sees some bones on the ground close by, and immediately settles down to chew on the remains with his back to the approaching cat. 
I wonder if there are any more like that around here?" Hearing this the leopard halts his attack in mid stride, and he slinks away into the trees. 
So, he goes chasing after the leopard. 
The monkey soon catches up with the leopard, spills the beans and strikes a deal for himself with the leopard. 
I sent him off half an hour ago to bring me a fresh leopard, and he's still not back!" How it Pans Out "The difference between involvement and commitment is like a ham and egg breakfast. 
1. 
2. 
(It's a dead giveaway). 
Time flies like an arrow. 
4. 
5. 
In feudalism it's your count that votes. 
She had a boyfriend with a wooden leg, but broke it off. 
A chicken crossing the road is poultery in motion. 
With her marriage she got a new name and a dress. 
When a clock is hungry it goes back four seconds. 
The man who fell into an upholstery machine is fully recovered. 
A bomb in a French kitchen would result in Linoleum Blownapart. 
You feel stuck with your debt if you can't budge it. 
Local Area Network in Australia: the LAN down under. 
He often broke into song because he couldn't find the key. 
Every calendar's days are numbered. 
A lot of money is tainted. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
Take a Bough Question. 
Answer. 
You're really ugly!" She was really ticked by now, so she went into the store and said that she would sue the store owner and strangle the bird. 
The next day, she deliberately passed by the store to test the parrot. 
"Yes?" "You know." Reality Check A student comes to a young professor's office after hours. 
"I would do anything to pass this exam." She leans closer to him, flips back her hair, gazes meaningfully into his eyes. 
"Would you ........... 
He picked it up, rubbed it vigorously, and a genie appeared. 
The man thought for a moment, then said, "I want a spectacular job --a job that no man has ever succeeded at or has ever even dared try." "That's easy", said the genie. 
You're a housewife." Wisdom from the Top "It's not me who can't keep a secret it's the people I tell that can't." - Lincoln "I have found the best way to give advice to your children is to find out what they want and then advise them to do that." - Truman "There's one thing about being a president - nobody can tell you when to sit down." - Eisenhower "Things are more like they are now than they have ever been before." - Eisenhower Dead Horse The tribal wisdom of the North American Indians, passed on from one generation to the next, says that when you discover that you are riding a dead horse, the best strategy is to dismount. 
Buying a bigger, stronger whip. 
Changing riders. 
Appointing various committees to study the horse. 
Arranging to visit other sites to see how they ride dead horses. 
Reclassifying the dead horse as "living-impaired." 8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
And, as a final strategy: 14. 
1. 
You Can Change The Oil Too 3. 
How To Properly Fill A Beer Mug 5. 
Understanding The Female Causes Of Male Drunkenness 7. 
Parenting - Your Husband Gave You Children So You Could Have Someone Other Than Him To Boss Around 9. 
How Not To Sob Like A Sponge When Your Husband Is Right 11. 
Balancing A Checkbook - Even You Can Get It Right 13. 
You, The Whining Sex 15. 
If You Don't Want An Excuse, Don't Demand An Explanation 19. 
How To Retain Your Composure While Your Husband Is Relaxing By Himself 23. 
How To Close The Top On The Toothpaste 25. 
Payday And Shopping Are Not Synonymous 28. 
Learning To Appreciate The Beer Belly And Lard Butt Morphologies Of Men 30. 
Andrews Church. 
Wherever did they come from?" "The glaciers brought them down," said the guide. 
A conclusion is the place where you gave up thinking. 
He who hesitates is probably right. 
The colder the X-ray table, the more of your body is required on it. 
The severity of the itch is proportional to the difficulty of reach. 
To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism; to steal from many is research. 
Two wrongs are only the beginning. 
Monday is a truly awful way to spend 1/7th of your life. 
A clear conscience is probably the sign of a bad memory. 
Change is inevitable....except from vending machines. 
A fool and his money are soon partying. 
If you think nobody cares about you, try missing a couple of payments. 
Raise my hand.... 
Drugs may lead to nowhere, but at least it's the scenic route. 
Plan to be spontaneous all day tomorrow. 
So, it was understandable that the Governor didn't take kindly to the droves of ambitious office seekers who wanted Joe's job. 
At the funeral, one eager beaver made his way to the Governor's side. 
"But you'll have to hurry, I think the undertaker is nearly finished." Fraud Warning! 
If you get an envelope from a company called the Internal Revenue Service, "DO NOT OPEN IT!" This group operates a major scam around the same time every year. 
This organization has ties to another questionable organization called the Social Security Administration, who claim to take money from your regular paychecks and save it for your retirement. 
In truth, the SSA uses the money to pay for it's own overheads and the same misguided corporate welfare the IRS helps to mastermind. 
Don't you be among them! 
Related? 
As they passed a barnyard of mules and pigs, the wife sarcastically asked, "Relatives of yours?" "Yep," the husband replied, "In-laws." Bad Landing An airline pilot wrote that on this particular flight he had hammered his ship into the runway really hard. 
Finally everyone had gotten off except for one little old lady walking with a cane. 
Save Me! 
All of a sudden he sees this shark in the water, so he starts swimming towards his boat. 
His boat is a ways off and he starts swimming like crazy. 
Why do you call upon me when you do not believe in me?" Aghast with confusion and knowing he can't lie the man replies, "Well, that's true, I don't believe in you, but how about the shark? 
"The Lord replies, "As you wish," and the light retracted back into the heavens and the man could feel the water begin to move once again. 
Shocked, the man looks at the shark as the huge beast closes its eyes and bows its head and says, "Thank you Lord for this food which I am about to receive..." Ways To Simulate Ski Season This is to remind skiers how to prepare for the ski season and to remind non-skiers why they do not ski. 
Visit your local butcher and pay $30 to sit in the walk-in freezer for half an hour. 
9. 
Pretend you are looking for your car. 
For ski boot simulation at home, put a pebble in your street shoes and tighten a C-clamp around your toes. 
Buy a pair of gloves and immediately throw one away. 
5. 
3. 
Dress up in as many clothes as you can and then proceed to take them off because you have to go to the bathroom. 
Repeat all of the above every Saturday and Sunday. 
</head> <p>2- When you get to the point where you really understand your computer, then it's definitely obsolete. 
4- When the going gets tough, upgrade. 
but to completely screw things up requires a computer. 
8- A complex system that does not work is invariably found to have evolved from a simpler system that worked just fine. 
</p> <head type="title">If we Fail</head> <p>A customer walks into a restaurant and notices a large sign on the wall, "$500 IF WE FAIL TO FILL YOUR ORDER!" When his waitress arrives, he orders elephant tail on rye. 
The restaurant owner comes storming out of the kitchen. 
With a wry little smile Grandma pressed a little farther, "Honey, do you remember how after we were engaged you'd sometimes lean over and suddenly kiss me on the cheek?" Grandpa leaned slowly toward Grandma and gave her a lingering kiss on her wrinkled cheek. 
"Look," says the first one, "he's listening to the ground. 
"Covered wagon," he says, "about two miles away. 
Man, woman, child, household effects in wagon." "Incredible!" says the cowboy to his friend. 
"In that case," said the young man, "I wonder if you'd consider returning the hundred dollars I paid you to marry my wife and me last July." </p> <head type="title">These are all true - probably.</head> <p>Rome did not create a great empire by having meetings, they did it by killing anybody who opposed them. 
Doing a job RIGHT the first time gets the job done. 
Plagiarism saves time. 
Never put off until tomorrow what you can avoid altogether. 
The beatings will continue until morale improves. 
We waste time, so you don't have to. 
Go the extra mile. 
A snooze button is a poor substitute for no alarm clock at all. 
Aim Low, Reach Your Goals, Avoid Disappointment </p> <head type="title">Things To Ponder </head> <p>1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
What is a whack? 
Why do "fat chance" and "slim chance" mean the same thing? 
Why do 'tug' boats push barges? 
Why do we sing "Take me out to the ball game" when we are already there? 
Why are they called "stands" when they are made for sitting? 
Why is it called "after dark" when it really is "after light"? 
If one "expected the unexpected" then the unexpected couldn't exist, Right? 
Why are a 'wise man' and a 'wise guy' opposites? 
Why do 'overlook and 'oversee' mean opposite things? 
If all the world is a stage, where is the audience sitting? 
If love is blind, why is fancy lingerie so popular? 
If you are cross-eyed and have dyslexia, can you then read all right? 
Why is bra singular and panties plural? 
Why do you press harder on the buttons of a remote control when you know the batteries are dead? 
How come abbreviated is such a long word? 
Let me show you what I mean." With that the father went to the telephone and dialed a number at random. 
Why don't you learn to look up numbers before you dial them?" "See," said the father to his daughter. 
He was probably very busy with some-thing and we annoyed him. 
"Hello, is Melvin there?", asked the father. 
The father turned to his daughter and said, "You see, that was anger. 
"He dialed the same number, and when a violent voice roared, "Hello!" The father calmly said, "Hello, this is Melvin. 
After digging to a depth of 100m last year, Russian scientists found traces of copper wiring dating back 1000 years, and came to the conclusion that their ancestors already had a telephone network one thousand years ago. 
They have concluded that 5000 years ago, their ancestors were already using mobile phones". 
Mandela. 
When he opens it, he is confronted by a little Chinese man, clutching a clipboard and yelling, "You Sign! 
Nelson is standing there in complete amazement, when the Chinese man starts to yell louder. 
You sign!" Nelson says to him, "Look, you've obviously got the wrong man", and shuts the door in his face. 
When he opens it, the little Chinese man is back with a huge truck of brake pads. 
You sign!" Mr Mandela is getting a bit hacked off by now, so he pushes the little Chinese man back, shouting: "Look, go away! 
I don't want them!" Then he slams the door in his face again. 
On opening the door, there is the same little Chinese man thrusting a clipboard under his nose, shouting, "You sign! 
This time Nelson loses his temper completely, he picks up the little man by his shirt front and yells at him; "Look, I don't want these! 
"House," in French, is feminine - "la maison." "Pencil," in French, is masculine "le crayon." One puzzled student asked, "What gender is Computer?" The teacher did not know, and the word wasn't in her French dictionary. 
No one but their creator understands their internal logic; 2. 
Even the smallest mistakes are stored in long-term memory for possible later retrieval; and 4. 
The women's group, however, concluded that computers should be masculine("le computer"), because: 1. 
As soon as you commit to one, you realize that if you'd waited a little longer, you could have gotten a better model. 
Five minutes later: "Da-ad..." "What?" "I'm thirsty. 
You had your chance. 
Can I have a drink of water??" "I told you NO! 
"Daaaa-aaaad..." "WHAT??!!" "When you come in to spank me, can you bring me a drink of water?" An exasperated mother, whose son was always getting into mischief, finally asked him, "How do you expect to get into Heaven?" The boy thought it over and said, "Well, I'll just run in and out and in and out and keep slamming the door until St. 
She was about to turn off the light when he asked with a tremor in his voice, "Mommy, will you sleep with me tonight?" The mother smiled and gave him a reassuring hug. 
"I have to sleep in Daddy's room." Little voice: "The big sissy." A mother took her three-year-old daughter to church for the first time. 
All was quiet until the little one started to sing in a loud voice, "Happy birthday to you. 
One little girl was wearing a particularly pretty dress and, as she sat down, the pastor leaned over and said to her, "That is a very pretty dress. 
Standards An American, traveling on a train in Europe, met a Cuban tobacco grower, a Russian vodka distiller and a lawyer. 
After lighting his own cigar, the Cuban took one drag and then threw it out the window, explaining that cigars were of no consequence in his country since there was such an abundance of them. 
After taking just one swig, he threw the bottle out the window, explaining that vodka was of no consequence since, in Russia, it was so plentiful. 
If You Must... 
Pretty soon all the other bats smelled the blood and began hassling him about where he got it. 
"OK!" he said with exasperation, "Follow me." and he flew out of the cave with hundreds of bats following close behind him. 
Finally he slowed down and all the other bats excitedly gathered around him. 
"Yes, yes, yes!" the other bats all screamed in a frenzy. 
666 is exactly 2.138 times the height of the pyramid of Cheops and if we multiply the height of the pyramid by 3.36 million, we get the EXACT, let me repeat that - EXACT - distance to the moon. 
This provides CONCLUSIVE proof that Bill Gates is either an extraterrestrial or a pyramid. 
Very conservative people write right copy, and have the right to copyright the right copy they write. 
His editor has the job of making the right rite copy right before the copyright can be right. 
Duplicating that rite would copy Wright right rite, and violate copyright, which Wright would have the right to right. 
Old Hermit An old guy who'd spent his whole life as a recluse in the desert goes to visit a friend. 
Standing alongside the track, wondering what the heck it was, he hears a loud whistle. 
The train just nudges him a glancing blow, but it still flips him into an arroyo, where his head smacks up against a rock and knocks him colder'n a witch's heart. 
His friend greets him, puts on a kettle of tea, and they start swapping old lies. 
Amazed, his friend asks, "What the hell did you do that for?" The hermit says, "Man, those suckers're dangerous. 
Comin' and Goin' There's this guy who had been lost and walking in the desert for about 2 weeks. 
Tired and weak, he crawls up to the house and collapses on the doorstep. 
Feeling better, the man asks the missionary for directions to the nearest town. 
He goes back into the house and asks the missionary, "Could I borrow your horse and give it back when I reach the town?" The missionary says, "Sure but there is a special thing about this horse. 
"Finally he remembers, "Amen!!" and the horse skids to a stop 4 inches from the edge of the cliff. 
The Lone Ranger and Tonto walked into a bar and sat down to drink a beer. 
The Lone Ranger got the horse water and soon Silver was starting to feel a little better. 
Not able to do anything else but wait, the Lone Ranger returned to the bar to finish his drink. 
Instead of going home, however, he squandered the weekend (and his paycheck) partying with the boys. 
Tuesday and Wednesday went by with the same result. 
Always avoid alliteration. 
Prepositions are not words to end sentences with. 
Avoid cliches like the plague--they're old hat. 
Employ the vernacular. 
Eschew ampersands & abbreviations, etc. 
Parenthetical remarks (however relevant) are unnecessary. 
Parenthetical words however must be enclosed in commas. 
It is wrong to ever split an infinitive. 
Contractions aren't necessary. 
Do not use a foreign word when there is an adequate English quid pro quo. 
Eliminate quotations. 
Tell me what you know." 13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
Eliminate. 
Analogies in writing are like feathers on a snake 21. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
28. 
Avoid archaeic spellings too. 
Use your spell checker to avoid mispelling and to catch typograhpical errors. 
Don't repeat yourself, or say again what you have said before. 
Don't be redundant. 
Don't never use no double negatives. 
Eschew obfuscation. 
No sentence fragments. 
Don't indulge in sesquipedalian lexicological construction 41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
46. 
47. 
49. 
He sat there at the dinner table staring at it for a long moment, watching it quiver. 
"Eat it!" the boy drew back in amazement. 
"What is the big brass gong and hammer for?" one of his friends asked. 
"How's it work?" the friend asked. 
Suddenly, someone screamed from the other side of the wall, "HEY, KNOCK IT OFF ! 
Eventually they ended up in a tall office building. 
They kept seeing people go in and then come out differently. 
"Son," he said while panting heavily, "hurry and go get your mother." </p> <head type="title">Exact Time</head> <p>Every morning for years, at about 11:30, the telephone operator in a small Sierra-Nevada town received a call from a man asking the exact time. 
I am making lot$ of friend$ and $tudying very hard. 
Love, Your $on. 
Do NOt forget that the pursuit of kNOwledge is a NOble task, and you can never study eNOugh. 
They will then score one point for every subsequent issue or broadcast or Internet posting after the first offense is noted by Chatterbox if they continue not to report said inconvenient fact--and an additional two points on days when the news organization runs a follow-up without making note of said inconvenient fact. 
Publications that get all the way up to 20 will be faxed a likeness of Joseph Stalin. 
But Chatterbox doesn't know any other easily understandable phrase that describes this particular kind of offense.) For the purposes of this survey, the Wall Street Journal will be counted as a separate and distinct publication from the Journal 's editorial page, because, in essence, it is. 
Bill Clinton. 
And because it published an editorial Feb. 
That comes to a total of six . 
Chatterbox considered but rejected the idea of awarding Rabinowitz bonus points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to the New York Times (as the Times reports in today's story). 
And besides, Rabinowitz's efforts on the Times ' behalf weren't really unethical, just puzzling, given the two newspapers' intense rivalry. 
"Ms. 
"I asked her why she had decided to talk to the New York Post 's Steve Dunleavy, and refused a Times reporter. 
She asked if I thought it would be all right to talk to the Times reporter. 
She said, 'Well, I'm sorry I didn't.' She said she would if he called again. 
Husbands and Wives Chatterbox feels a little dense for not realizing sooner that the subtext (and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race would be Wronged Wife vs. 
By running against Giuliani (who has been reported in Vanity Fair to have a mistress--he denies it--and, by all accounts, has a sham marriage), the first lady could exact symbolic revenge on her philandering husband while advancing the fortunes of the Democratic party at the same time! 
The last thing he needs is to draw more attention to these qualities in his personal life. 
Hanover "would not say whether Giuliani would run for the Senate, whether she would like him to run for Senate, or whether she would campaign for him if he did. 
Clinton is a 'very interesting' person. 
Hanover plans to be Hillary Clinton's campaign manager? 
This diminishes-- slightly-- the significance of Norma Kelsey's possible motives in verifying parts of Broaddrick's story. 
Bill Clinton, and remains perplexed that the Journal editorial page won't. 
The Entrepreneur Is the New Madonna Dear Joe, I know what you mean about being a journalist. 
I often feel as if I only get half the story sometimes, so I typically do a massive amount of reporting that is most often much more than I will ever need. 
Think of all the good stuff we all collect daily in our reporting that we never add to stories. 
Much of it, of course, using the standards of top newspapers, cannot be used since it is largely gossip we are repeating, although it certainly could make for some very good stories. 
I personally always thought it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just one man--at AOL, for example, there was a conscious effort to develop other "characters," for lack of a better word. 
That's ironic, since I think it was just that insularity that helped them, much in the same way that AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon Valley. 
I wonder if that means geography is destiny, and it's still location, location, location. 
I think it almost does not matter what the judge does since it's clear that the balance of power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land. 
Or will it be none of them because the Internet allows and encourages a plethora of strong companies and a complex interconnection of businesses where none are allowed to dominate? 
That incredible empire dominated the world and I imagine it did not seem possible to people living then that anyone could loosen that empire's grip on humanity. 
Now I am getting way too philosophical, but this is my final missive, so why not? 
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows. 
But USA Today stays with Princess Di. 
The LAT focuses on new dissension within the Israeli government about whether or not Israel should continue to maintain forces in southern Lebanon, dissension fueled when an Israeli commando raid there late last week was ambushed, with twelve deaths the result. 
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over. 
Much of the continuing Diana coverage is spinning off into the realm of meta- and meta-meta-pieces. 
But USAT and the WP also each run pretty newsy Diana pieces as well. 
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said." It's odd, however, that in repeating this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The Missionary Position . 
Doesn't that sound like celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory? 
Given that Ms. 
Fashioning Paula USA Today leads with Texas' settlement of its product-liability lawsuit against the leading tobacco companies. 
The New York Times leads with a comprehensive poll about American attitudes concerning abortion. 
That makes Texas the third state to settle such a case, joining Florida and Mississippi. 
The WSJ notes that the just-concluded football/TV deal will probably mean even steeper cable bills in the near future. 
And they're in the habit of passing expenses along to Joe Remote. 
The finding, if it holds up, says the Times , may lead to a simple way for airline travelers to fight jet lag. 
The piece concluded that she's finally graduated to an image that's "sophisticated yet soft." Today's WP "Style" section (that's the opposite of substance, remember) picks up that ball and runs with it, with a lengthy discourse on the new PJ. 
Her makeup is now subtle and based on natural, not neon, hues. 
Stephanopoulos Analyzes His Own Crime There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence coming out" against the president. 
could lead to impeachment proceedings." Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president? 
Political figures turn on each other from time to time, for good and bad reasons; we're used to it. 
During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem. 
Again, he's not a fool.) Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments. 
Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack machine." "Gov. 
Donaldson suggests that on 60 Minutes Clinton had admitted to infidelity. 
(Today, of course, the president's defenders claim that Clinton admitted infidelity on 60 Minutes and that the fully informed voters simply didn't care.) Near the end of The War Room, Stephanopoulos gets a call from someone who apparently claims to have a list of Clinton paramours, which he is about to publicize. 
"You would be laughed at ..." he tells the caller. 
... 
He was one of Clinton's principal enablers, to use a word employed by Maureen Dowd in today's New York Times . 
Now the dissembler and enabler has become the scholar and ABC News analyst. 
Joe McCarthy, without any apology for his own role. 
But usually at least a nanosecond of contrition is required. 
If Clinton, as is now increasingly clear, was a time bomb waiting to explode, then Stephanopoulos helped smuggle him into the White House and muffled the ticking. 
Jewish settlement in Palestine, then part of the decaying Ottoman Empire, only proceeded piecemeal. 
Most integrated into multiethnic communities in the cities of Jaffa, Tiberias, and Jerusalem. 
Extolling the virtues of manual labor, they acquired huge tracts of farmland from absentee Syrian and Lebanese landlords. 
The Jewish National Fund was founded in 1904 for the purpose of buying up land from Arabs. 
In anticipation, Jews in Palestine began laying the groundwork for a greater sense of national identity. 
Following Jewish National Fund guidelines, farmers evicted Palestinian peasants living on the newly acquired plots. 
By 1946, Jews owned only 7 percent of Palestine, but the perceived threat of displacement was widespread among Arabs. 
Among the peasantry, rumors spread alleging an Anglo-Jewish conspiracy to remove Muslims from Palestine. 
They publicly supported Arab complaints that Jews were driving Arabs off the land. 
During the 1930s, Palestinian responses turned violent . 
Arabs, who outnumbered Jews by more than 2-to-1, revolted against Jewish land acquisition and British promises of Jewish nationhood. 
Zionists argued that the land purchases benefited all the territory's residents. 
Zionists also maintain that Jews became a lucrative market for Arab-manufactured goods. 
Urban commerce drew some peasants from their family farms. 
Jewish land purchases were not the primary factor, these historians say. 
Jewish sovereignty and ownership were established the way these things usually are: by war. 
Property owned by Arab refugees, who either fled war zones or were forced from their homes by the Israeli army (another long-standing controversy), was also taken over by individual Jews or confiscated by the government. 
A new school of Jewish historians is more critical of the dislocations caused by Jewish land acquisition, and concludes that it was not always fair. 
Others argue that it was a mistake for the Jewish National Fund to prohibit non-Jewish laborers from the newly purchased lands. 
In the past, death threats have done little to deter sales of land. 
But that decree did not have the power of civil law behind it. 
Fetal Viability "Viability" has become the focus of the abortion debate. 
How is the concept of viability relevant to the moral and legal issues of abortion? 
Wade , the 1973 case legalizing abortion, made fetal viability an important legal concept . 
It said this included fetuses that doctors expected to be sustained by respirators. 
Because the point of viability varies, the court ruled, it could only be determined case by case and by the woman's own doctor. 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor argued in a 1983 decision that Roe was on a "collision course with itself." She said that improvements in technology would continually push the point of fetal viability closer to the beginning of the pregnancy, allowing states greater opportunity to regulate the right to an abortion. 
Doctors now believe a fetus can become viable during the 23 rd week--a week earlier than was thought 24 years ago. 
Their lungs have barely formed and their airways are not developed enough to inhale. 
A baby born during the 22 nd week has a 14.8 percent chance of survival. 
Neonatologists predict that no baby will ever be viable before the 22 nd week, because before then the lungs are not fully formed. 
By the 30 th week, when a newborn doesn't require a ventilator to breathe, it has a 90 percent chance of survival. 
Because premature babies depend on technology, survival rates vary based on access to that technology . 
Doctors assess a fetus's viability by attempting to guess whether its lungs have formed. 
None of the methods for predicting viability are very precise. 
The only significant revision came in the Casey decision (1992), which made viability even more important. 
Some require doctors to perform tests to prove a fetus is pre-viable and require multiple doctors to certify the findings. 
Banning IDEs nationwide is a major goal of the pro-life movement. 
Barring this procedure is also the only regulation of abortion that public-opinion polls say has a majority of support. 
Some medical ethicists and constitutional scholars say that the Supreme Court was wrong to create the pre-viability/post-viability distinction in the first place. 
In 1992, only 1,070 abortions were performed after the 25 th week. 
From a lifetime of undisciplined reading with innocent pencil in hand and malice prepense in mind, I have gleaned a harvest of what I am pleased to denominate Red Pants items, a sampling of which follows. 
In Antony and Cleopatra (Act IV, Scene VIII, lines 14 et seq .) Antony commands the wounded Scarus to ... 
And in Othello (Act II, Scene I, line 80) Cassio utters the fervent prayer that Othello might Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms. 
Shelby stood like one stricken. 
And in Chapter VI of Vanity Fair , when Blenkinsop, the housekeeper, sought to console Amelia for Joe Sedley's jilting of her dear Rebecca, Thackeray confides (indelicately?) that Amelia wept confidentially on the housekeeper's shoulder and relieved herself a good deal. Chuckles often emanate from the British employment of a term in a sense at variance with American usage. 
In Vanity Fair (Chapter 39), the niggardly Sir Pitt was not nearly the aerial acrobat your American sophomore might fancy him to be when he screwed his tenants by letter. He was simply making extortionate exactions upon his wretched lessees. 
George, warns Mr. 
I'll twist him, sir. 
Mr. 
Many a raucous snigger has been sniggered from the pure-minded use of a word that suggests unmentionable parts of the human body. 
Who can, for instance, blame a youth with but a mildly evil disposition from guffawing when he reads in Pater's Marius The Epicurean (Chapter V) a reference to Apuleius' The Golden Ass noting that all through the book, there is an unmistakably real feeling for asses ...? 
One is entitled to speculate on what outrageous proposal the narrator had made in Proust's Remembrance of Things Past, Vol. 
K. 
463 of A Treasury of the World's Great Letters , Simon and Schuster, N.Y., 1940) in which he relates how he sends his native boy up a palm tree, where he cuts off a couple of vast nuts ... (macho victim not disclosed). 
Shelby, part of which goes,  `Well,' said Haley, after they had both silently picked their nuts for a season, `what do you say?'  In Bleak House (Chapter XXIV) Dickens may cause some readers to blush when he wrote of Mr. 
In Forster's A Passage to India (Chapter XXXI) a vivid picture is created by the sentence Tangles like this still interrupted their intercourse. Pages later (Chapter XXXVII), it is acknowledged that He, too, felt that this was their last free intercourse. Apparently from then on, it was going to have to be cash or credit card only. 
For in Paris they told the elf Our rough North land was the Land of Lays, even though it is generally acknowledged that Paris is nmero uno in this area of human activity. 
An arresting one occurs in A Passage to India (Chapter XXI) in which Forster describes a small building as a flimsy and frivolous erection, while in The Mayor of Casterbridge (Chapter XVI) the Mayor himself beheld the unattractive exterior of Farfrae's erection. A phrase can paint an astonishing picture for the reader. 
 Or, in Nicholas Nickleby (Chapter XLVII), where that admirable novelist graphically portrays how old Arthur Gride again raised his hands, again chuckled, and again ejaculated. And in his short tale, Lionizing , Edgar Allan Poe is quite candid in describing the reaction of one of his characters:  ` Admirable! 
Earlier in this century, pansy became a derogatory epithet to describe an effete male, thereby cheapening forever lines like Shelley's noble image in Adonais (verse XXXIII): His head was bound with pansies over-blown, not to mention Poe's odd allusion in For Annie : With rue and the beautiful Puritan pansies. 
Benson's action picture in Lucia in London (Chapter 8): Georgie stepped on a beautiful pansy. Of more recent vintage is gay . 
5818) in The Prologe of the Wyf of Bathe , in which that harried dame asks: Why is my neghebores wif so gay? 
(Act II, Scene I, line 150) And what in the world is one to make of William Butler Yeats's startling revelation in his poem Lapis Lazuli (from Last Poems ) that They know that Hamlet and Lear are gay.? 
May good cess befall all such quixotically misguided readers! 
In The Bride of Lammermoor (Chapter VI) Bucklaw vows, I will chop them off with my whinger, and one feels quite let down when he learns that a whinger is but a whinyard, which is merely a short sword. 
hordes of giggling high school girls ... 
Submitted by .] LIGHT REFRACTIONS If you are a fan of old-fashioned jazzwhat is now known as traditional or trad jazzyou are familiar with one of the standard jump tunes of the genrea tune most commonly called Muskrat Ramble . 
Dah! 
da-dat-dat-dah! 
da-de-da-de-da-de-dat-dat-dah! That's it; sure; you've heard it. 
My memory is rickety, but I am sure my first recording was labeled MUSKRAT RAMBLE, and I think, though I am less sure, that it was played by the late Muggsy Spanier, who was, to my mind, one of the greatest of jazz trumpeters. 
The label said, MUSKAT RAMBLE. 
(This, remember, was in my youth, and it was a time when typographical errors were called typographical errors, not typosat least by kids in junior high.) Some time later, I got still another version of MUSKRAT RAMBLE, with still another version of the title. 
That, I thought, was really absurd. 
I looked up muscat in my Webster's and found that it is a `variety of grape.' To name a ramble after a variety of grape seemed to me preposterous. 
During my time in senior high, and, after that, in the Army Air Force, I had other things on my mind (there was a war on, after all), and I didn't give the MUSKRAT-MUSKAT-MUSCAT RAMBLE problem any thought. 
Now might be as good a time as any to reveal a theft I committed at an Air Force Base near Seymour, Indiana. 
The wind used to sweep across that damned airfield with what seemed an absolute determination to crystallize our bodies. 
Usually the records were taken from their jackets and loaded naked in stacks, where they picked up dust, scratched one another, and traded static electricity. 
I played all three, and the few other G.I.s in the room, which was quite largebig enough for a fair-sized dance with a small orchestraeither paid no attention or asked me to put on something by Glenn Miller or Jimmy or Tommy Dorsey instead. 
and Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor an' my gun; Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor an my gun; Goin' cut him if he stan' still, goin' shoot him if he run. 
Kid Ory played great jazz trombone. 
About thirty years ago, when I was concocting an epicurean dish and saw that I had no sherry on hand, I went to the liquor store and bought a bottle of muscatel that was being sold for an absurdly low price and that I thought might be exactly right for my sauce. 
Muscatel is made from muscat grapes, is sometimes called muscat , and, being relatively cheap and sweet and high in alcohol content, is the booze of choice for a great many wines. 
I made up my mind that Muscat Ramble was almost certainly the original name of the tune. 
Muskrats, according to my encyclopedia, look like giant rats, are found in and around the mudbanks bordering marshes and quiet ponds, have partially webbed feet, and do a good deal of swimming. 
Muscat, or muscatel, on the other hand, is found on skid rows all over the land. 
After the guy finishes his Napa Valley smoke and has slept it off, he is looking for the means to get another muscat fix. 
I suspect that that is precisely the song's origin. 
I asked him what he thought the original title was. 
I once asked Ory about it and he said, `It's m-u-s-c-a-t. 
I find a muskrat ramble difficult to imagine visually. 
On the other hand, a wino with an empty paper bag on a ramble to maintain his muscat levelnow that has a touch of poetry. 
As a nonexpert, although interested, subscriber to VERBATIM, it is a bit mysterious to me that the singular noun absence takes the plural verb are . 
Helen W. 
But she betrays her own elitist insensitivity when she describes a flight attendant as the person who passes peanuts on an airplane. I hope Ms./Miss/Mrs. 
Antipodean Newsletter Leonard Bloomfield, having begun with a theory of meaning which emphasized the environment in which objects were present and named, had to add the obvious proviso that we sometimes mention what is not present. 
In the desert the missing necessity is water. 
It is, I suppose, likely that people with little money must think of money more than the well-off do and that the hungry will dwell on thoughts of food and the thirsty on drink. 
I decided to make a count of words relating to water in reports of desert exploration. 
Ten pages on (page 17), water occurs nine times but there are also the related words stream (twice), well (twice), pool, channel , and the circumlocution essential element. Two words, dew and shower , refer in the context to the presence of water; the rest are in contexts indicating its absence. 
Taking page 17 again, I was reminded that Giles is rather given to semi-serious poetic diction at times, and we find him referring to the presence of water in the Finke River as the stream purling over its stony floor or, quoting some bygone poet, brightly the brook through the green leaflets, giddy with joyousness, dances along. Perhaps present water called for some stylistic celebration. 
In addition, there was a rich collection of words relating to water, not necessarily indicating its presence. 
Even words which are usually of more general reference are brought into relation with water in a text like this. 
Apart from these words and lake , words and phrases directly associated with thoughts of water and reinforcing the sense of obsession include pool, springs, drainage hole, clay hole, flood, channel, water-courses, water-hole, rock-hole, drink, drinkable, running water, stream , and native well . 
Stream is often said not to be used in Australia except in metaphorical ways, normally being replaced by creek . 
British-born explorers did not set out to write Australian English, of course. 
The other name, native well is, as a later explorer David Carnegie, author of Spinifex and Sand (1898), points out, a misnomer. 
This sort of misnomer leads Carnegie to suppose that to the uninitiated no map is so misleading as that of West Australia where lakes are salt-bogs without surface water, springs seldom run, and native `wells' are merely tiny holes in the rock, yielding from 0 to 200 gallons. Carnegie also describes namma-holes and soaks as sources of water. 
Perhaps these words did not really fit. 
Wadi , for instance, would describe an inland creek rather well. 
There is really no excuse, Fowler says (not he says!), but here we give examples of his third case only, where there should not be two parties justifying even a momentary doubt about which the pronoun represents. And here the deluge of printed matter abounds with such specimens that one would suppose them to be the rule rather than the exceptions. 
I am not picking on the following authors; it is just a random catch. 
Her suitor, Neigh, who had proposed marriage in a previous chapter, appears somewhat apprehensive at Ethelberta's suggestion. 
Belmaine and mistaken by him for an indication that Neigh has been dragged into going to the church against his will by his over-hasty wife. One wonders whether the marriage had secretly taken place between the consecutive chapters! 
Somerset Maugham was a good and careful grammarian but now and then he slipped. 
Joyce, is approached by a Mr. 
Joyce had often wondered at the extent of his vocabulary.... 
From The Once and Future King , by T. 
White: Naturally it was Lancelot who rescued her. 
Nobody who knew him would have expected him to do anything else, whether he had been sent away in disgrace or notbut, as it was thought he had left the country, his return did have a dramatic quality. 
From Oh What a Paradise it Seems , by John Cheever: The size of Chisholm's teeth, the thickness of his glasses, his stoop and the spring with which he walked all marked him, Sears thought, as a single-minded reformer. 
No wonder  we've lost them already. 
He slipped the knife out of the sheath and was ready, and unembarrassed by hampering bedclothes, for the weather was hot and we hadn't any. 
That is the whole story. 
If we had only that scene to go by we would never really know, and all because of a Puzzling Pronoun or two! 
Give me my grammatical games any day to a crossword puzzle. 
There is a quiet humor in Yiddish and a gratitude for every day of life, every crumb of success, each encounter of love. 
The word Yiddish derives from the German judisch `Jewish.' The principal parent of Yiddish is High German, the form of German encountered by Jewish settlers from northern France in the eleventh century. 
Journalist Charles Rappaport once quipped, I speak ten languagesall of them Yiddish. Although Yiddish has been in danger of dying out for hundreds of years, the language is spoken today by millions of people throughout the worldRussia, Poland, Rumania, France, England, Israel, Africa, Latin America, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the United States, where, like the bagel, it was leavened on both coasts, in New York and Hollywood. 
Quickly she holds up a cross. 
Translation: It won't do you any good. Most of us already speak a fair amount of Yiddish (Yinglish) without fully realizing it. 
and so on through the whole megillah : `long, involved story.' A number of poignant Yiddish words defy genuine translation into English: chutzpa `nerve; unmitigated gall;' a quality we admire within ourselves, but never in others. 
Chutzpa is that quality enshrined in a man, who, having killed his mother and father, throws himself on the mercy of the court because he is an orphan. 
Help!' while beating you up. mensch a `real authentic human beinga person.' naches the `glow of pleasure-plus-pride that only a child can give to its parents': This is my son, the Doctor! oy not so much a word as an entire vocabulary, as Rosten observes: can express any emotion, from trivial delight to the blackest woe. oy vay; oy vay in mir literally, Oh, pain, but, in its long or short form, can be used for anything from condolence to lament: On August 6, 1945, the world's first nuclear weapon was dropped on Hiroshima, Japan. 
(And the nebbish is the one who has to clean it up.) The Yiddish language, through its color, its target-accurate expressions, its raw idioms, and its sayings exudes a refreshing magic and laughter, mixed with sober thought, that has been handed down from generation to generation and from nation to nation. 
Which reminds us of the zaftig `buxom, well-rounded' blonde who wore an enormous diamond to a charity ball. 
Nothing in life is all mazel [`good luck']. 
The Women's History of the Word Those who are not familiar with feminist writings may find it useful and interesting to consider a book, recently published in Britain, that is typical of the harsher brand of such works. 
Men are seldom assigned to review them, possibly because the editor fears that they will be either ignorant of or unsympathetic to the issues raised, if not biased against them, or because the editor is a woman. 
According to the blurb on the dust jacket of this distinctly unpleasant book, Rosalind Miles is head of the Centre for Women's Studies at Coventry Polytechnic, a lecturer, broadcaster, journalist, and author of several other books, including a highly acclaimed biography of Ben Jonson. 
At one point, she gets so carried away with her thesis that she suggests that females were responsible not only for all of human evolutionary biology but for the very notion of counting (in order to keep track of menstruation) and, probably by the same token, astronomy. 
In the good old days, we were taught that the pyramids were built by tens of thousands of slaves. 
 ordinary laborers. 
bound in fetters, they work continually without being allowed any rest by night or day. 
It is even less comprehensible how a modern researcher could accept it and have the effrontery to promulgate it. 
Women have always commanded over half the sum total of human intelligence and creativity. 
In every field, women too numerous to list were involved in developing knowledge and contributing to the welfare of their societies as they did so: the Roman Fabiola established a hospital where she worked both as nurse and doctor, becoming the first known woman surgeon before she died in AD 399. 
Clearly, this rosily checkered past was soon to be replaced, chiefly, it seems, as Judeo-Christian-Islamic-Confucian-Buddhist cultures flourished. 
As a final stroke, in a grim foreshadowing of what the future held in store for the Jews, the niddah had to wear special clothing as a badge of her separate and despised status. 
According to Campbell, the only godlike female figure in the Bible is the Virgin Mary, and she appears, identified as virgin, only in the Gospel according to Luke. 
Although this might help explain the Judeo-Christian-Muslim tendencies to subjugate women, treating them essentially as chattel, it does not account for a similar treatment accorded them in other cultures, notably that of Japan. 
as they once existed, conceptually, for it is unlikely that he could have ignored the treatment of women in the modern reflexes of the cultures adhering to those religous precepts. 
With all respect, that seems a highly debatable issue and one far too complex for this discussion, though we can certainly trace a diminution in the role of female divinities (or divinity) when we come to examine Judaism and its congeners and progeny. 
If there is something wrong, it behooves us to get at the roots of the problem, not to flail about wildly, for only after the source of a disease has been identified can one properly investigate its cure. 
In this jeremiad, males are viewed as the enemy, and are so characterized throughout the book, which concludes with exhortations to engage the foe and a strident call to arms (though not men's). 
Most of the relies from the past are gone forever, destroyed by the plows of countless generations of farmers, reduced to rubble by erosion, by conquerors, by prehistoric (and modern) urban developers, by fire and flood, and just by time. 
The interest in man's forebears did not become fashionable upon the publication, a few years ago, of Roots : on a far larger scale, we have been trying to discover all we can about the origins not of men but of man. 
Perhaps the fascination with man's past grew out of the obsession with ruins evinced by Romanticism; certainly, modern archaeology seems to have followed close behind, for the excavation of the supposed site of Troy took place only about 100 years ago. 
Archaeology is a popular pursuit, and its manifest results not only receive considerable publicity but can be seen in museums. 
Even the remnants we have from early languages that had a writing system are relatively sparse: Classical Latin and Greek, Hebrew, and a few other languages are better documented than others; but for most all we have to go on are a handful of tablets here, a few inscriptions there, barely enough in many cases to allow us to identify the language, let alone draw any conclusions regarding its structure or meaning. 
About languages that had no writing system, we know nothing at all. 
Another significant break-through was that of Michael Ventris (1922-1956), who deciphered the Linear B script found on Crete and identified it as an early form of Greek. 
Many years ago, a linguistic scholar counted all of the languages then spoken of which he had evidence. 
The exact count is unimportant and, at best, spurious, for it is extremely difficult to establish uniform criteria for what distinguishes dialect from language. 
Linguists examining Classical Greek, Latin, German, English, Slavic, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Lithuanian, Iranian, Hindi, and the other languages of India and Europe found that there were correspondences among many of the common words. 
One rapidly runs out of hands and must resort to fingers and toes, for after years of laboriously categorizing these languages, the number of different main branches (called families and subfamilies) came to about ten. 
Although certain other languages were geographically nearby, it was impossible to establish any resemblances between them, hence Basque, for example, is not classified as being in the same family with other European languages, nor are Hungarian and Finnish, both of which belong to their own group. 
The languages discussed here are what are usually called the Indo-European family; similar family trees could be drawn for the Semitic languages, Sino-Tibetan, Japanese, Bantu, Malayo-Polynesian, and so on. 
It is important, too, to note that writing systems are irrelevant: for instance, Polish is written (today) using the Roman alphabet, but Russian, a related Slavic language, uses the Cyrillic; Yiddish, a Germanic language, is written in Hebrew characters; Latin, Greek, and Sanskrit, which resemble one another rather closely in some respects, all use different alphabets; and early examples, utterly unrecognizable to untrained readers of modern languages, were written in cuneiform, quite suitable for writing on soft clay tablets with a pointed stylus, and hieroglyphics. 
But only rarely did they collaborate and, with few exceptions, their work was not correlated in a systematic way. 
In many other places, the ancient sites lay buriedand still dobeneath modern cities: modern property owners quite understandably take a dim view of tearing down their buildings on the off chance that the remnants of an ancient town will be found several yards below. 
But there, as everywhere else, nothing can interfere with progress and, regardless of the finds and their importance, the archaeologist must eventually yield to the bulldozer. 
Based on the sparse evidence available, linguists theorized about the earlier languages that had given rise to those attested. 
In most cases, they dealt with words and functional elements, creating what are called reconstructions in hypothetical family prototypes called, variously, Proto-Latin, Proto-Greek, Proto-Germanic, Proto-Indo-Iranian, and so forth, the ultimate goal being to posit a single language called Proto-Indo-European. 
Nonetheless, it is convenient to think about the existence of a group of proto-dialects which can be referred to as Proto-Indo-European. 
I have no quarrel with Renfrew's theorynotwithstanding the generally received wisdom that has placed the homeland north of the Black Sea region and the Volga steppes. 
Using the evidence available, Renfrew contends that the original Indo-European language, closely related to Hittite, separated after 6500 BC, with the IE languages of western Europe developing from western Anatolia and those of Iran, India, and Pakistan from the eastern division. 
Pottery finds can be interpreted to support either the imposition of an elite culture from Turkmenia or a late development of the Indus civilization. 
Unfortunately, the presentation of his linguistic argument, where the author is clearly treading on more speculative ground than in those parts dealing with outright archaeology, where he is on more familiar territory, is disorganized and repetitious. 
The result is an argument that is persuasive but scarely convincing. 
Only one thing made me a little suspicious when cranking up the system: in the descriptive text that appears on the screen, the word labeled is spelt labelleddecidedly un-American. 
I looked up the word preceding and was, after a brief moment, asked to type in the word, which I did. 
I am not sure why, but I expected the program to network in the same way. 
If all this is too complicated to follow, let me summarize: you look up word X and get synonyms A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. 
Even the definition provided for the sub-listings is identical in wording to that of the word originally sought. 
If a relatively limited access to a synonym dictionary is likely to be of use, then this package may be of service. 
(That was the number listed when I received my copy; it might have increased.) It also has a few neat features, like suggesting a few alternatives if you happen to think that preceding is spelt preceeding (as many people do). 
Also, if you enter jump , you get the synonyms for that; but if you enter jumped , you get the (same) synonyms but inflectedincluding the variants leapt, leaped for leap . 
and Canada, Longman elsewhere, which offers more than 800,000 synonyms, more than three times the number listed in any other synonym book). 
I, No. 
The article is a classic, probably the first on the subject to appear in a scholarly journal, though there are other informal references to family language, some of which are documented by Dickson in his Bibliography. 
Some are quite unique and their reporters cannot imagine their origin; others, like Penn Station , what one family terms a child's misinterpretation of a famous line or phrase, are clear: the generic term comes from the Lord's PrayerAnd lead us not into Penn Station. Obviously, that works only for kids familiar with New York City. 
Land where the Pilgrims pried. 
I pledge my allowance to the flag. 
Many people know F.H.B. 
There are occasional hidden entries, as the list of diseasesamong them the dread mohogus under the entry for Fowlenzia . 
Inevitably, some of the entries are more imaginative than others; Dickson will have his hands full if everyone responds giving private words. 
Laurence Urdang A Midwesterner, Will Hays, Jr., who is proud of his knowledge of post-Civil-War history, tells me the following origin of shot , as in shotglass , absent from Gunning for the English Language: Although we associate trench warfare with World War I, trenches were characteristic also of the Civil War. 
The soldier in charge would command, after each firing, that the rank on the scaffold step down and be replaced by the rank that had just reloaded, thus alternating ranks and sustaining the rifle fire. 
They moved westward to start a new life. 
Most new saloons were small and the bars short, accommodating with difficulty the many bunched up, in ranks, if you will, calling for whiskey. 
Thus, Step down (or back) and give me a shot was readily understood. 
Mr. 
She boldly marched into a bookstore and asked the salesclerk for a copy each of Hemingway's The Sun Come Up Again and Throw Away the Gun and Steinbeck's The Angry Grape . 
Mr. 
An odd sidelight on this came a few days after reading the article. 
(Origin unknown; not from Gaelic) I think it hardly fanciful to discern a note of Calvinist disapproval in this curt disclaimer. 
The monkey on board ship was a lad employed to fetch suppliespowder and so forthto the guns. 
So what is the explanation of the phrase cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey ? 
Anybody who asks Why a brass monkey? is probably not aware that brass monkeys were very common household ornaments in England in the 19th and early 20th centuries. 
They can still be found today in so-called gift shops. Usually, they come in sets of three, one with its hands over its eyes, one over its ears, and one over its mouth: they were said to represent See no evil, Hear no evil, Speak no evil. There were various whimsical variants. 
The main problems are representing consonant clusters and word-final consonants. 
Every Japan veteran has his list of favorite mistakes. 
Adding the Japanese final vowels produces Gone with the Windo . 
This process resulted in the sign reading Pizz and Coffee . 
Japanese has a verb inflection which expresses causation or permissionin English, to make someone or to let someone do something. One day during a university English class, a very discomfited student, after frantic and obtrusive dictionary work, handed a colleague of mine a scrap of paper. 
Those familiar with Safire's editorial style, reflected in his political columns on the editorial pages of The N. 
Times , may agree with me in the contention that when he writes about language he seems to be writing on his day off: I cannot put my finger on why, but On Language always strikes me as an excruciating effort to be cute. 
More often than it might prove of interest to me, personally, Safire deals with insiders' language in Washington (where he is based) or with trivialities uttered by some politico. 
It ill behooves me, excoriated recently as enamored of the cheap larf, to criticize Safire's arch puns, which permeateenliven is probably the word his editor would usehis articles, but I find some kinds of humor unsuitable for reading, however they might evoke a chuckle when uttered viva voce . 
[p. 
115] ...slanguist...[p. 
121] Logue-Rolling [title, p. 
-log:] Some people prefer their logues sawed off...[p. 
[ibid.] Writing containing such labored figures makes for hard reading. 
Notwithstanding the valuable role he plays in inspiring nonlinguists to think about language and in informing them about myriad facets of the subject, I find it hard slogging (or, as he would probably write, sloguing). 
It is those that are so sorely missed in his column. 
For one thing, the letter-writers call attention to errors or misinterpretations and are largely critical. 
is deliberately msterious , but at least it is not deliberately msleading  and other mscegenations). 
For one thing, he documents many neologisms, an activity that endears him to many working lexicographers. 
The publisher sent unrevised bound proofs from which this review was prepared; unfortunately, there was no proof of an index, but the publisher has assured me that there will be one in the published book, a rather essential ingredient of a work with this title. 
It has some problems, if you want to be sticky about things: on p. 
Indeed it does not. 
While I acknowledge that it is not easy to know how to sort out the many topics to be covered in a usage book, most reasonable writers have taken a stab at writing an entry under a heading that seems a likely place to look, then have provided a detailed index. 
True, one can find different from , etc., in an entry so headed, but for absolute constructions one is referred to an entry called Covered with onions, relish, and ketchup, I ate a hotdog at the ball-park. If the user wants to find out about misplaced adjectives and adverbs , reference is made to the entry Electric shaver for women with delicate floral design on the handle. A search for only would be futile. 
Fun is fun, but those who might rely on such a book are quite serious about the information they are seeking, and it is unfair to play fast and loose with their sincerity. 
And of what use are the interminable examples, for instance, of the misuse of like for as , which draw out the entry to three pages? 
The article on British/American English (There's no home like Eaton Place.) is a good one, but, at six pages, its utility is questionable. 
Of what relevance (to usage, notwithstanding the fact that the topic is interesting) is an entry on eponyms (John Bull and John Hancock are not just any johns.)? 
A longish section, Some Troublesome Idiomatic Prepositions, and a Glossary of Grammatical and Linguistic Terms Used in This Book, followed by a list of References, sources associated with specific entries, round out the work. 
Examples of franglais which they find particularly monstrous are, I hear, to be condemned to a newly created Muse des horreurs. The first is sponsor, sponsoriser, sponsorisation. The academy also calls upon all French to send in further examples of linguistic pollution, observing ruefully that this is one museum which will be open 12 months a year. 
If you think that the practice in some Muslim countries of amputating the hand of a thief is harsh, beware of participating in horse shows in England, where there is no capital punishment but the issue arises every few years: A carriage and team of Cleveland Bay horses, driven by Mr Fred Pendlebury...[were] approaching the water obstacle during the cross-country section of the Harrods International Grand Prix when the leading pair became confused, turned back and became entangled with the second pair. 
[From The Times , 16 May 1988] Loose Cannons & Red Herrings Readers should be familiar with Robert Claiborne's earlier books, especially Our Marvelous Native Tongue: The Life and Times of the English Language . 
The rationale behind referring to them as lost arises from the author's observation of an unfortunate state of affairs: because of an increasingly widespread lack of familiarity with the basic, structural elements of our cultureGreek and Roman mythology, the Bible, literature, and ordinary historical factpeople today are unable to discern the origins of terms like aphrodisiac, Achilles [sic] heel or tendon, meet one's Waterloo, sow dragon's teeth , and hand-writing on the wall , to name a few. 
In many entries, Claiborne labors the obvious, offering little or nothing we do not already know, could easily imagine, or for which the author offers no explanation. 
Examples of the last include spill the beans, square the circle, stalemate , etc. 
As for stalemate , which is related to checkmate , would it not have been important to indicate that the - mate part has nothing to do with English, having been borrowed from checkmate which is a loanword from Persian (and has nothing to do with check , either). 
Does any reader need an entry like this one? 
Some speculative suggestions, as the derivation (or reinforcement) from Seidlitz powders for take a powder are sheer nonsense. 
Most prominent among its earliest practitioners in England was Joseph Wright, who prepared the six-volume English Dialect Dictionary , which was published between 1898 and 1905; the best-known contemporary British specialist is Harold Orton. 
People generally seem to find dialect study interesting. 
in Bere Regis, who was born in the village and who speaks with a delicious Dorset burr, always uses I instead of me.... 
Map 33 shows the distribution of child (most of southern England) and of bairn (north of a slightly wavy line between Boston, on the Wash to the east, and Lancaster, on the west coast). 
The maps are clear, each occupying a full page, and the word information is well set forth on them. 
I have only one nit to pick with the authors. 
Although it is true that isoglosses, in effect, set off the various areas where a particular usage was recorded, more accurately an isogloss is drawn to connect sites either where speakers employ both usages or where speakers using one or the other live in very close proximity. 
Isoglosses are to dialect maps what isobars and isotherms are to weather maps, what isobaths are to geophysical maps of the oceans, etc. 
In some respects, it may not be long before certain aspects of dialect geography will be largely historical. 
This book is a good introduction to the subject (in England); those familiar with dialectology in America, and those interested in the study in England or, indeed, generally would be well advised to add Word Maps to their libraries. 
It is divided into eighteen chapters varying in length, each dealing with a different aspect of the authors and their works, among them, Writers Related to Writers Schooldays (which colleges and universities spawned which writers) American Literary Pseudonyms American Literary Title Sources Literary Cons: Hoaxes, Frauds, and Plagiarism in American Literature The Profession of Authorship: Authors/Publishers/ Editors/Agents Thrown to the Wolves: Reviews and Reviewers These are supplemented by an extensive Bibliography and a detailed Index. 
It is not at once apparent why the book is styled an almanac, but that is unimportant: there is no other book I know of that contains as much diverse information about American writers as this one. 
It contains many photographs of writers, some quite early; these enliven the appearance of the book but accomplish little else, unless one is interested in what Samuel Clemens looked like at the age of 15 (as a printer's devil) or in the appearance of Hart Crane standing in the middle of a railroad track in Cleveland in 1916. 
A handful might have led colorful existences, some are objects of interest because they died early, committed suicide, were related to (other) famous people, and so forth; but such information seldom reveals as much about their output as do the creations themselves, and in certain cases one is probably better off not knowing quite so much. 
Submitted by .] I would like to make a couple of comments on articles in the Autumn 1988 issue [XV,2]. 
I would think that the words grand and stretch would be known to more people than two of the words the author gives as being familiar ( chippy and hootch ). 
December 1998 Your contribution to Goodwill will mean more than you may know. 
We want you to Know why your support of Goodwill is so important. 
"I was sad when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda. 
I like working and making money. 
I can write my name on the deposit slip. 
"When I first came to Goodwill I was a single parent with little or no self-esteem. 
I really like my job." -- Sherry Because people want to work. 
I had no experience or skills ... 
I rode a bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow. 
"Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission. 
Their one common goal: they all want to work. 
The kinds of services we provide help people deal with obstacles like health care, transportation and child care -problems that are big enough on their own without being compounded by factors like physical and mental disabilities, illiteracy and lack of job skills. 
Your gift to Goodwill will be used directly to support services that will help even more find jobs. 
Use the enclosed card and give a generous gift to Goodwill today! 
Dear , A few months ago you received a letter from me telling the success stories of people who got jobs with Goodwill's help. 
Your gift to Goodwill will help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly support our work. 
Goodwill finds jobs for people with mental and physical disabilities. 
Sherry learned through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the welfare system and support her family. 
"Coming to Goodwill was the first step toward my becoming totally independent. 
totally off of welfare." Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment. 
He trained in desktop publishing and combined his enthusiastic work ethic with new-found skills in a burgeoning industry. 
I wanted to be there...I had my second chance to change my life." Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their own stories of success. 
Please use the enclosed envelope to give a generous gift to Goodwill today! 
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep jobs. 
News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good Guys." The magazine stated that Goodwill (as well as the other standouts) is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable." While I appreciate U.S. 
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with increased purchasing power. 
Tax dollars that would have been spent on public assistance are saved. 
I know you can... 
once his tears have subsided, he confirms what his classmates have already figured out: he just received a job offer -- his first in five years. 
On his way home, he shares the story with four people at a street corner. 
Eventually, he turns your support into a payoff for all of us. 
These people and their successes are real. 
News & World Report. 
Real work. 
Please use the enclosed response card and envelope to give generously to Goodwill today. 
We've expanded Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are needed most. 
You have helped make Goodwill's work possible with your previous support. 
Who has benefited from our partnership? 
When you and I help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers, fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain another consumer. 
Everyone benefits from the work we do together. 
Please continue our important partnership. 
Think of the joy and success they bring to you and your loved ones. 
Michael was born with cerebral palsy. 
For 18 long months Michael could not find a job. 
Finally, Michael called Goodwill. 
After three interviews, Michael proved that he was the right person for the job. 
Every year, thousands of people come to Goodwill. 
Last year, participants in Goodwill programs earned --and paid taxes on -- wages of nearly $3.5 million. 
The savings are counted in more ways than dollars and cents, however. 
McClelland President P.S. 
For every dollar of public support Goodwill received last year, we returned $1.59 to the community in the form of earned wages and reduced public assistance payments. 
While the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea, the people who need jobs are floundering. 
Welfare is not the answer. 
Goodwill works. 
He knew he had made a bad mistake, but despite his commitment to rebuilding his life, he just didn't count on the obstacles that would be thrown up in his path. 
He went to the Center Township Trustee for food stamps until he could find a job and a place to live. 
Jerry's Goodwill caseworker found him a job immediately. 
The seasonal construction job he obtained soon ended, and he returned to Career Academy for help once more. 
It took some time and hard work, but with the help of Goodwill, Jerry was able to work out a payment plan with the prosecutor's office, find housing and conduct a more thorough job search. 
Of the more than 42,000 people Goodwill served in 1999, over 5,000 of them have multiple barriers to finding and keeping a job. 
Some are blind, deaf or have other physical disabilities. 
But Goodwill offers hope even to people with numerous obstacles to overcome, like Jerry. 
For as long as he needs it, Goodwill will continue to help. 
And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers develop resources to keep workers on the job. 
Your generosity will help people help themselves. 
June 21, 1999 Name Address City, ST Zip Dear , Do you remember the combination of elation and apprehension you felt when you first left home? 
Very few have family support to get them started. 
To help them establish themselves in the community, the Pleasant Run Emancipation fund was begun in 1993 by private donors who wanted to provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our programs. 
Release by the courts 2. 
Positive termination of his or her Pleasant Run program 4. 
Without private donor support, this Fund doesn't exist. 
November 27, 1995 Dear Friend: What kind of people benefit by your contribution to Pleasant Run Children's Homes? 
Older kids, like Tracy and Kerry, left homeless after a recent murder-suicide in Indianapolis claimed Mom and Dad. 
Real people! 
Families are being torn apart, and too often, children are the victims. 
Pleasant Run Children's Homes began serving children nearly 130 years ago. 
For others, "families" are the counselors are housemates at the group homes where they live. 
In 1994 Pleasant Run served 346 children and 125 families. 
They welcome the chance to belong, to become self- sufficient, to regain their self-esteem and confidence. 
For Pleasant Run to continue to serve abused and neglected children and their families, we need your support. 
Please "help good kids get better" by sending us a contribution today. 
June 26, 1995 Dear Friend: This is not newsletter. 
In spite of that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help. 
Yet few of us hear enough about kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade. 
These are special children. 
They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to society. 
We are a not-for-profit, multi-service agency. 
Dear Friends of Pleasant Run: The holiday season is the time of year when we're all busy buying gifts, baking goodies, decorating our homes and making arrangements to be with family and friends. 
And this time of year is an occasion to remember those not as fortunate as we are. 
We do this through a wide range of programs including community- based, therapeutic foster care, group homes and our treatment center. 
Today we are asking you to take a few minutes to consider making a contribution to Pleasant Run to help the 1,500 children families we care for. 
Others are from families that are struggling to provide a healthy, happy environment but don't have the resources to make it possible. 
It may help a family stay together. 
A gift to Pleasant Run means the children in our care will have presents to open. 
Your gift will go beyond the holiday season. 
Please take a few minutes to mail a donation to Pleasant run. 
We wish you and your family a new year full of joy and love. 
Every year we seek companies, organizations and individuals to sponsor one or more of our families. 
We meet these needs immediately. 
They do not have the resources necessary to purchase gifts or food for a holiday meal. 
Thank you for considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for a family in need. 
Yes, it's that time of the year -- the start of the Boys & Girls clubs of Indianapolis' Camp. 
A time for a youngster to enjoy the fun and benefits of residential camp living, dedicated staff and instruction, and a chance to make special friends. 
That's why I want you to learn more about the Super Summer Safari Camp. 
It costs $225 to send one child to camp. 
Please make camp possible for all deserving Indianapolis children and send in a tax deductible contribution today in the enclosed envelope. 
No matter the size of the donation, please know that your gift will be appreciated and make a difference. 
You can make a difference in a child's life. 
February 26, 1999 Dear , Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at home to gangs and drugs. 
That's where the Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis come in. 
This costs money. 
Would you please consider a gift of the same in 1999? 
The kids are depending on you. 
Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your entire family, other employees, or maybe even your neighbors. 
until 7:00 p.m., marks a special day, as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill. 
From basketball, kickball, volleyball, archery, crafts, an egg toss, and even a walk through our creek, you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry. 
We'll prepare a hog roast and hot dogs for the kids, with all the fixings. 
Simply fill out the enclosed card, and we will see you at the Grill! 
Questions? 
Name: We need your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp. 
The camp offers summer residential programs for children from ages 7-17, and continues contact with the campers and their families with special overnight and weekend follow-up events during the school year. 
Many of the children have learning disabilities, behavioral problems, or come from economically distressed families. 
This year Jameson Camp is planning an Inaugural fund-raising event: The Jameson Grill! 
In short, Fun for Everyone! 
Lucky attendees can go home with a great prize. 
Can you help support this wonderful event by furnishing any type of products or services that can be used as prizes for our activities or as a raffle prize? 
Enclosed is a form you can complete and return to us in the postage-paid envelope. 
Your quick response will help us begin organizing our prizes. 
If you have any questions, please call me at 241-2661. 
Sincerely, Pat Bray Director of Development Help Blaze The Trail -- 1997 Jameson Camp Thank you for your last Annual Fund Gift! 
And we're just getting started! 
I can tell you we need your help now as much as ever before. 
Two of them told me yesterday that as a group they decided they had to earn the right to ask others for help by accomplishing something real to help themselves. 
Please, consider renewing your support of these great kids today. 
We know our follow-up weekends are going to be better attended than ever this fall and winter. 
June 10, 1997 Name Address City, ST Zip Dear Mrs. 
An understanding that, above anything else, success requires genuine effort, a willingness to set challenging goals. 
If these special children are to become the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right direction right now. 
You're last gift of $50.00 helped make it possible for us to provide guidance, encouragement and fun to nearly 400 Indianapolis area children. 
juniors happen again this year for 7 and 8 year old campers. 
juniors introduces at-risk children to Jameson two years earlier than we could previously reach them. 
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them. 
The teens have undertaken a volunteer project to regularly visit with sick children at a local hospital. 
The kids need your leadership now more than ever. 
Thank you again for helping point the way. 
You make it possible for us to help special kids with learning disabilities, behavior problems and economic disadvantages to gain the confidence required to put genuine effort into achieving real goals. 
July30,1999 Name Address City, ST Zip Dear Mr. 
In 1998, we served a total of 31,484 low-income individuals through job training and placement assistance, youth and senior programming, family counseling, emergency assistance, and much more. 
The centers that serve these areas, Mary Rigg Neighborhood Center, Hawthorne Community Center, Southwest Multi-Service Center, and Christamore House, have teamed up to run an exciting job readiness program for 14 and 15 year old area residents called the Summer Enrichment Program. 
The end result will be kids who have a better understanding of and vision for their own future, be it college or a career. 
We would like to offer our youth a small reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates from Target. 
In return, we will recognize Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program. 
MMM F_NAME L_NAME TITLE COMPANY ADDRESS CITY,ST ZIP March 4, 1999 Dear LTR_NAME: CCI has come a long way in the last five years. 
One of the areas we've decided to focus on is development. 
The community initiatives committee is working with our development office to put together a long-range fundraising plan that will ultimately bring more money into our centers. 
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and your finances. 
I also encourage you to seek additional support through your company, church, or service organization. 
We're at an exciting juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from our efforts. 
Please, make your contribution today. 
If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at CCI, 638-3360 x23. 
Answer 34,700 opportunities to change a life! 
And we can do even more in 1999 with your financial support! 
HIPPY (Home Instructional Program for Preschool Youngsters) for families. 
In Home Services for adults and seniors. 
Better yet, most of these services occur in cooperation with private and public agencies from all over the city - CICOA The Access Network, Goodwill Industries, Indianapolis Housing Agency, City of Indianapolis, Indianapolis Private Industry Council, Family and Social Services administration, OTC, Indy Parks, and numerous community development corporations, neighborhood organizations, and churches, to name just a few. 
Please, make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of Indianapolis in 1999, and know that COMPANY is playing an important part in meeting the needs of its community. 
August 4, 1999 Name Address City, ST Zip The goal of MCCOY, Inc. 
In 1998, MCCOY, Inc. 
Participants in the Youth Outcomes Educational Initiative identified three goals for all our youth to obtain: economic self-sufficiency, healthy family, social relationships, and involvement in the community. 
One group of adults and one group of youth, through two very different processes, have arrived at the same conclusion; our community still has much to do if we are to help ALL of your youth successfully develop into the responsible, productive adults who will our community in the future. 
One, IndyGo in April adopted a much-needed policy that all young people under the age of 19 may ride on their buses at half the normal fare all year long. 
Through the youth mapping process, it was confirmed that the positive opportunities for youth on weekend evenings were lacking. 
As it has been an exciting year for all of us, MCCOY, Inc. 
Annually, we ask several of our youth serving organizations to join us in our effort to help young people grow up well in Indianapolis. 
If you have any questions or concerns at any time, please do not hesitate to call me at 921-1288. 
Brandon, President MCCOY, Inc. 
Its purpose is to encourage collaboration and cooperation between the various agencies, programs, and systems that serve our community's youth. 
I have enclosed a packet of information about MCCOY and its work as well as an application with various options for supporting the youth of our community. 
I will call you in a few weeks to discuss your level of interest. 
October 7, 1996 Name Address City, ST Zip Dear Name: In the summer of 1993, the Marion County Commission on Youth began what can best be described as a "new era" in its history. 
It retained, however, the same mission with which it had been charged from its inception: to serve as a catalyst for effective, coordinated, and collaborative service delivery to youth in our community. 
The formation of The Community Academy, a pilot project directed at expelled students from local school systems, has come about as a result of MCCOY's efforts to mobilize community agencies in response to a pressing issue. 
One concrete example is a joint project undertaken in the United Northwest Area in partnership with The Junior League of Indianapolis and Community Partnerships with Youth from Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Since its re-organization, MCCOY has established its unique niche within the community by refraining from direct service programming and focusing on what it does best: helping to identify youth needs, convening groups of individuals and organizations which can address those needs, and moving toward collaborative solutions. 
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount of $10,000.00 to support such activities as: ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding effective and efficient youth service delivery; ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships; ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive growth of all Marion County young people. 
We seek the financial support of the Foundation to help us be successful in creating the atmosphere in our community where young people can grow and develop well. 
In our fund raising efforts to date, we have received the support of local government, foundations, and corporations as well as the personal financial commitments of individual MCCOY Board members. 
Thanking you in advance for your support, we remain, Sincerely, John T. 
Roby President Treasurer John F. 
The 9th annual JCC Auction will benefit the numerous scholarship programs of the Jewish Community Center of Indianapolis, a United Way agency. 
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our community. 
One of us will call you to discuss how your company can become an important highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our scholarship programs. 
256. 
October 27, 1998 Dear Name: Join us for the "Sale of the Century" at JCC Auction '99, on Saturday, November 13, 1999. 
Because you are an organization that cares, you are invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99. 
Your continued participation is very important to the JCC, as we work to build partnerships between businesses and our not-for-profit agency. 
Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample of your ad from last year's auction book, current JCC market statistics and an overview of the many JCC programs that will be preserved and strengthened through your generous support. 
If you have any questions, please feel free to call Myrna Weinberger at 251-9467, ext. 
Thank you in advance for your consideration. 
We know that children do better when they have a network of caring adults to nurture and motivate them. 
If you have not supported Big Sisters in the past, please join me in doing so by completing and returning the enclosed pledge form. 
But caring adults like you can reach out and help. 
It's hard enough for her to make good decisions when she's surrounded by support. 
Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14. 
This includes a volunteer screening process, orientation, training and ongoing supervision and support by a professional staff. 
Over 235 girls are currently waiting for a Big Sister. 
I encourage you to Join me in presenting this matchmaker challenge to your congregation. 
Linda McCoy Pastor, THE GARDEN A Blossom of St. 
Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789 Dear Mr. 
Do not sit this one out. 
Understand the world and change it where it needs to be changed... 
Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will bear." -- Carl Sagan You can help make positive changes in the lives of at-risk youth in central Indiana. 
With your help, we can change that. 
"I was matched with my Big Sister in June of 1992. 
We go to movies, dinner, concerts, and other stuff like that, but I have also been able to participate in charity events and fundraiser type things. 
In 1998, Big Sisters served 972 young people through its many programs. 
Over 170 young people are still waiting for a mentor. 
Will you make a financial gift to Big Sisters in 1999 that will ensure that more young people receive the guidance they need, that more young people stay in school, stay off drugs and make good choices? 
It will also be used to help maintain the infrastructure that fosters and supports the development of effective relationships, including volunteer orientation and training and ongoing supervision and support by a professional staff. 
Gifts of $100 or more will be matched thanks to a special 25th Anniversary $100,000 Challenge Grant and will be placed in the Growth For Girls Fund. 
If you would like to find out more about the Big Sisters program, please call us, (317) 634-6102 and ask for Ellen Robinson. 
Sincerely, Andrew T. 
When you give to Big Sisters, you can get 50% back! 
A limited number of credits are available. 
20. 
The Invest in Youth campaign helps insure this. 
They are learning to make positive choices concerning alcohol, tobacco and other drugs and to support each other when those choices are challenged. 
I now invite you to continue to support the mission and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong families and strong communities. 
Thank you. 
The SCS brochure I am enclosing will give you the historic significance of SCS, as well as listing activities and specific benefits awarded to donors at the Georgia O'Keeffe level. 
Additionally, I am sending traditional background materials on the Museum and the two latest issues of our Previews Magazine detailing upcoming events, exhibitions, and educational programs. 
Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting. 
A Second Century Society response card and return envelope are enclosed. 
Both our Barefoot in the Grass family picnic (July 23,2000) and the annual SCS Founders Day celebration (October 11,2000) are free for Georgia O'Keeffe members. 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE OFFICE OF THE DEAN Fall 2000 Ms. 
LastName Over the past year, the Graduate School of Arts and Science has seen record level contributions from its alumni and alumnae to the Schools Annual Fund. 
As you read the enclosed Dean 's Report and Request, I hope you will consider how your support of the Graduate Schools Annual Fund shapes the lives of its faculty and students as it makes an impact on the depth and breadth of their NYU experience. 
They enable us to provide students with access to state-of-the-art technology and opportunities to attend professional colloquia, seminars, and conferences on and off campus. 
We also hope you have been able to follow the public education campaign for our masters programs in The New York Times and elsewhere, a sign of our belief in them. 
I am grateful for your continued partnership in our pursuit of these shared values. 
APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB members take recreation time seriously and know the importance of good trail information. 
(Retail value: $40.85) Holiday Price $29.95 For getting in touch with nature Maine cant be beatits an outdoors lovers paradise! 
AMCs Quiet Water Canoe Guide: Maine offers a chance to experience unspoiled quiet places, to observe wildlife in their natural habitat, to paddle and completely unwind. 
Now is your chance to get a great discount on Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Regionthe latest addition to our Nature Walks seriesand Nature Hikes in the White Mountains. 
It includes detailed maps and photographs; camping and picnicking information; driving, parking, and canoe put-in instructions; illustrated nature essays; tips on safety and equipment. 
Included in your gift set: Nature Hikes in the White Mountains Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Region Quiet Water Canoe Guide: New Hampshire/Vermont (Retail value: $38.85) Holiday Price $29.95 You can spend a lifetime in New York City and miss out on the remarkable abundance of green space throughout the metropolitan area. 
The key is knowing where to go. 
The definitive gift of friendship for any AMC member to give. 
Your friends will love you for it and youll be helping AMC and its stewardship of the environment with each gift you give. 
loop-top Nalgene water bottle 12-month AMC individual membership York by land or by water. 
PLEASE ACCEPT THE ENCLOSED TEMPORARY MEMBERSHIP CARD. 
Dear Outdoor Enthusiast: The Appalachian Mountain Club is looking for men, women, and children who share our love of the outdoorsand our commitment to preserving our regions natural beauty for future generations. 
You name itweve got it! 
And our roots go deep. 
From beginners to experts, they are into hiking, camping, and backpacking.. 
rock climbing and mountaineering.. 
.nature photography and birdwatching. 
.and relaxing alongside nature. 
Today our unique network of 10 huts and lodgeseach a days hike apartstretches 56 miles through the White Mountain National Forest. 
Greylock in the Berkshires. 
Were helping to develop Over, please APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB Five Joy Street  Boston, Massachusetts 02108-1490  (617) 523-0636 the Northern Forest Canoe Trail, from Old Forge, New York, to Fort Kent, Maine. 
And were working with the National Park Service in upgrading the trail system in the Delaware Water Gap and Acadia National Park in Maine. 
Were working to keep our air clean and healthy, our waterfalls clear, our rivers running free, and recreational activities open. 
Contained within it are more than 100 species of trees.. 
Plus all the birds and animals of the forests and the fish of our rivers and lakes. 
The Call of the Wild Despite centuries of neglectwildlife still abounds in the 12 states where we are active. 
Shouldnt you? 
high on Mt. 
Shouldnt you canoe and hike along the Deerfield, Connecticut, and Androscoggin Riversseeing some of the Northeast regions most beautiful scenery? 
Build an igloo? 
Climb a frozen waterfall? 
Wouldnt you like to? 
Why not come backpacking and overnight camping with AMC? 
Why not come horseback riding with AMC in the Catskillsexploring the foothills and spending the night at a campsite? 
Prowl for owls. 
Bring binoculars for the annual warbler migration. 
Take a four-mile canoe trip to northern New Hampshires only bald eagle nesting site in the Lake Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge that we helped form. 
Last year more than 1,000 members contributed more than 70,000 hours to our challenging and rewarding pro bono activities, in cooperation with state and municipal agencies, and other nonprofit groups that share our goals. 
BRING THE KIDS to Lonesome Lake Hut. 
ISLE-HOP the Maine Coast. 
Camp out on isolated islands. 
EXPLORE the Northern Forest. 
Learn about the natural history, forest management practices, and environmental issues that affect the Northern Forest. 
Chapter leaders arrange hiking and bicycling trips and teach the basics of cross-country skiing, whitewater and flatwater canoeing, and other outdoor skills. 
AMC publications are maps for your enjoyment Your tax-deductible Membership includes a subscription to AMC Outdoors, the magazine of the Appalachian Mountain Club. 
Hundreds and hundreds of them every monthmany at chapters near your home. 
We have the largest and broadest library of outdoor publications in the Northeast of interest to you. 
Our mission is to protect the environment through responsible citizen use and enjoyment of the outdoorsthat means your use, your enjoyment. 
Falender Executive Director P.S. 
I hope its just the push you need to get outdoors. 
Check out our website at www.outdoors.org for up-to-date information and hot tips on where to go, what to do, and what to take! 
HawkNew York, NY 10128President/CEO www.aspca.org His belly was empty. 
At least Astro could drink water from a puddle near the stake he was chained to. 
Astro had only a few days to live. 
Please USE them on your correspondence to help get our name in front of as many people as possible. 
As a person who cares about animals, youre probably anxious to know what happened to Astro. 
When our officers arrived, Astro was too weak to even stand up. 
Then they saw it. 
He was barely moving. 
Welcome, friends! The officers brought Astro to the ASPCAs Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital. 
But with first-rate medical attention and tender care from ASPCA staff, he slowly got well again. 
Every day, the ASPCA gets reports of animal cruelty, abuse, and neglect. 
In a world where cruelty is common, animals like Sammy and Astro desperately need friends like you. 
provide first-rate veterinary care through our Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital ... 
reach out to children, teachers, and parents through our Education Programs. 
Today, over 130 years later, the scope of the problem is greater than ever. 
nurse abused animals back to health and find them loving adoptive homes. 
Sincerely, Hawk, DVM and CEO P.S.We found Astro a wonderful adoptive home. 
A financial report is available from the Office of the Attorney General by writing the Charities Bureau, 120 Broadway New York, NY 10271. 
Please destroy your old card and begin using your new card as of the valid date printed on your new card. 
Delivering your new card gives us an opportunity to remind you how were delivering more ways to make your card more useful. 
Convenience features AT&T Calling Card feature Use your card to make local, long distance, even international calls from virtually any phone. 
Account Online View your statement, see unbilled activity or pay your bill on the Internet. 
AutoPay EFT Payments Skip writing checks and have your payment made electronically from your bank account each month. 
Personalized features Cycle Date You can time your statement and payments to coincide with convenient times of the month by choosing your billing cycle date. 
Calling Card Number Choose your own calling card number too, to make calling easier. 
If you havent already enrolled, sign up for this plan that saves you money on your AT&T Universal Card calls. 
on all your AT&T Universal Card calls when you make the call yourself by dialing 1 800 CALL ATT. 
The low, $1 monthly access fee will be conveniently billed to your account. 
Thank you for carrying the AT&T Universal Card. 
Sincerely, A Mark Gilder Vice President, Marketing Universal Card Services Corp. 
AT&Ts surcharge is up tp $30 per call. 
And who plans to commit such a mass bird killing? 
Department of Agriculture! 
Let me tell you exactly whats at stake ... 
You see, the USDA found a loophole allowing these protections to be lifted for experimental activities. 
And if the death of two million birds doesnt prove their theory -- and show a reduction in crop loss -- theyll likely seek the right to kill even more birds the next year! 
Meanwhile,blackbirds arent the only birds threatened directly by the poison. 
including the Bobolink, Grasshopper Sparrow, Harris Sparrow and Le Contes Sparrow. 
Heres what I need you to do, to make sure we prevail: First, I need you to sign and return your Petition to the U.S. 
Ill forward your Petition, along with those from thousands of other Audubon members and supporters, urging the USDA to withdraw its cruel plan to poison blackbirds ... 
I can assure you that thousands of Audubon Petitions can make a difference -- just as they did in a successful battle against an adverse wetlands proposal a few years ago! 
to block a dangerous experiment that would begin to erase 50 years of steady progress eliminating pesticides and other harmful chemicals from our environment. 
And with a donation of $15 or more, youll receive a FREE Birdfeeder in appreciation for your concern. 
Gain strict enforcement of wildlife laws. 
And Audubon will draw upon its century-long track record of highly effective conservation work to make a real difference in other key areas: Audubon protects birds. 
maintaining the WatchList of bird species near endangered status (www.audubon.org/ bird/watch) ... 
Audubon rescues endangered wildlife. 
With your help, Audubon will remain committed to wildlife laws and regulations that are well funded, properly implemented, and strongly enforced. 
Audubon is truly making a difference for wildlife refuges everywhere says U.S. 
And your support will help sustain our innovative Audubon Refuge Keepers program, and maintain our own network of more than 100 wildlife centers and sanctuaries. 
Wetlands are not only crucial to wildlife ... 
Your gift today will help us reach our goal to restore one million acres of irreplaceable wetlands. 
Teaching Americans --particularly young people -- how to become better stewards of our environment is one of the best investments that you and I can make for wildlife. 
And of course, your support will enable Audubon to stand ready to act whenever a wildlife crisis emerges --like the USDAs bird poisoning proposal that Im asking you to help us defeat today! 
First,sign and return your Petition to the Secretary of Agriculture immediately, to declare a firm and resounding NO! to the USDAs bird poisoning plan. 
Thank you. 
And in thanks for your gift of $15 or more, you 11 receive a FREE Birdfeeder. 
so please respond today! 
Dear Former Member, When we lose a member like you, it hurts.. 
So this morning I sat down and thought about what it would take for you to give us a second chance. 
Then I thought about an enticing way for you to regain your place among Americas most intelligent, concerned and caring citizens who proudly avow membership in the National Audubon Society. 
Its already won the prestigious National Magazine Award not once, but four times. 
Bring beauty, mystery, adventure and the natural world back in your life. 
missed traveling with us to Asia where we found and followed the last wild tigers... 
missed discovering in Peru the newest bird known to science, the barbet.. 
Ive had a look at the magazines upcoming subjects and I can tell you the best is yet to come. 
Theres much more to membership than AUDUBON magazine! 
Youll be supporting sanctuaries, field research, environmental education and legislation and many other vital efforts critical to the protection of wildlife and their habitats. 
By accepting my special invitation to join again, youll receive special invitations to our sanctuaries and Ecology Camps  and FREE ADMISSION to our Nature Centers. 
We simply cant afford to lose you. 
On behalf of everyone here at the National Audubon Society, we look forward to saying, Welcome back! All of us are excited about sending you your magazine and membership materials. 
As an added gesture of appreciation, Ill also send you our binoculars -- FREE -- with your permanent membership. 
running. 
This wolf will be running for its life! 
in order to land and immediately gun her down . 
This cruel, unethical wolf-hunting practice is called same-day airborne land-and-shoot. It was a total shock and surprise. 
Frankly, we never thought Alaskas anti-wolf politicians would go this far. 
when wolves will be cant-miss targets against Alaskas snowy terrain. 
Defenders hopes to raise at least $100,000 to help Alaskans For Wildlife, a coalition of Alaska citizens, win a citizens ballot initiative this November. 
So today, I urge you to do these two things: FIRST: Sign the enclosed Citizens Advisory Ballot to show our Alaska allies your strong personal support to reinstate the ban on same-day airborne land-and-shoot wolf killing in Alaska; SECOND: Rush an urgent donation to help put this measure on the ballot and win passage in November. 
Like you, the majority of Alaskans oppose same-day land-and-shoot wolf killing. 
And they didnt listen to the recommendations of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, which opposed this legislation! 
the state agency that manages Alaska wildlife ... 
Before the 1996 ban on same-day land-and-shoot, as many as 400 wolves were killed in Alaska each year because of this barbaric and unethical practice. 
So if we dont act right now, Alaskas snowy tundras will once again become bloody killing fields for wolves in Americas Last Frontier. Say NO to the barbaric practice of same-day airborne wolf killing. 
As I mentioned, this new same-day airborne land-and-shoot practice will start in September after the opening of hunting season and the first snow  and when wolves will be an easy target. 
Our well-funded opponents will spend whatever it takes to mislead and confuse voters about this ballot measure. 
A loss will encourage those anti-wolf fanatics who want to stop wolf restoration and put bounties on those wolves already in the wild. 
Please sign your Citizens Advisory Ballot to demonstrate to our Alaska allies that youre behind them; and send an urgent donation today to help them win this effort. 
$30,000  production of television and radio spots alerting the public to the findings of the above survey. 
Money must be in hand by mid-August to reserve time for September and October! 
They have the financial backing of powerful special interests and the determination to ignore the will of the people of Alaska and the American public. 
SIGN the enclosed Citizens Advisory Ballot to show your support for repealing same-day airborne land-and-shoot wolf killing in Alaska; 2. 
Remember, for this emergency effort to succeed, we must act immediately. 
And then, mail it back to us along with your emergency donation to help save Alaskas wolves. 
Sincerely, Rodger Schlickeisen President P.S.: Defenders needs your help to raise $100,000 in emergency funds to help ensure that the coalitions Emergency Effort to Save Alaskas Wolves succeeds. 
Time is so short. 
371 EASIJERICHO TURNPIKE, SMITHIOWN, NEW YORK 11787-2976 Its people like you who make it possible to give the priceless gift of Second Sight . 
For too many, this is a daily reality  but today you can help make a difference. 
It costs over $20,000 to breed, care for and train a guide dog like Duke and to train his blind teammate. 
Male and female dogs are used. 
Every Foundation guide dog is given free of charge to someone who is blind or visually impaired. 
We receive no government funding. 
Friends like you make it possible to give the gift of Second Sight. 
Its the special bond  of a loving and working 24 hour a day partnership. 
Now my guide dog, Franklin, walks me says Sead. 
Franklin has opened up a whole new world for me. 
I had never had a pet. 
For one thing, people are nicer to you. 
As one of our donors in the New York area told us, Sometimes you never see the good work your money does. 
the guide does Ive helped sponsor dramatically improve the lives of the men and women who receive them. Wont you please take the time now to send your donation to give someone the priceless gift of independence? 
Jones Chief Executive Officer RS. 
Dear Friend of Animals, I hope youll use the enclosed name labels, and colorful pet stickers, designed especially for friends of animals. 
I wish I could tell you that everyone is concerned about protecting earths animals -- dogs, cats, farm animals and wildlife. 
Every day of the year, The Humane Society of the United States receives reports about all kinds of animal cruelties, such as the horrors of the leghold trap; the use of dog and cat fur; needless or repetitive experiments on animals; and the abusive treatment of dogs and cats. 
And almost 6,000,000 companion pets are put to death in shelters throughout America. 
needless deaths that could have been stopped! 
Since 1954, our programs and activities have been aimed at stopping and eliminating all animal abuse and we continue to spend a great deal of time investigating animal cruelty cases and working with the courts to prosecute the guilty parties. 
Our primary goal, though, has always been to stop the cruel and inhumane treatment of animals before it happens, so we teach the public about the need to protect all animals from suffering, abuse and exploitation. 
Its a difficult problem, because we have to fight the well-financed and powerful agri-business and research industries, but we do our best to protect the animals. 
And thats where you can help. 
Its a wonderful way to enjoy their companionship and save the life of a loving animal, too. 
Your gift of at least $5 or $10 or even $15, will help The HSUS save millions of animals. 
Please help us carry this message to others so that animal cruelty and abuse can be eliminated. 
We are totally committed to putting an end to all forms of animal cruelty and neglect. 
Please take this moment to be as generous as possible to send your best gift today, and dont forget to use your free colorful pet stickers and name labels enclosed. 
A COPY OF THE LATEST REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION FILED BY THE HSUS MAY BE OBTAINED BY CONTACTING THE HSUS, 2100 L ST., NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20037. 
Mississippi The official registration and financial information of HSUS maybe obtained from the Mississippi Secretary of States office by calling 1-888-236-6167. 
NEW JERSEY INFORMATION FILED WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CONCERNING THIS CHARITABLE SOLICITATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY BY CALLING 973.504.6215. 
In New York, the Office of the Attorney General, Department of Law, Charities Bureau, 120 Broadway, New York, NY 10271. 
A COPY OF THE LICENSE TO SOLICIT CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AS A CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION OR SPONSOR AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, SOLICITATION LICENSING BRANCH, BY CALLING (919) 807.2214. 
IFAW ANIMAL SANCTUARY FUND Your donation will help give an animal a safe home! 
Be sure to write me back to let me know your 2001 Calendar has arrived m good order. 
Dont you agree that the lion and baby seal are looking right into your eyes? 
And if you have ever experienced to sight of a diving dolphin, you will be brought instantly back to that exciting moment when turning to our August image. 
Can you imagine the baby seal crying out for fear as a sealer raises his club? 
Many of our critics say that you and I who love animals attribute intelligent and sensitive qualities to stupid, non-feeling animals. 
It is humane. 
All animals need a place to get to in order to be safe from bullets, cruelty, traps and clubs. 
Box I 93 Yarmouth Port, MA 02615-01 www.lfaw.org IFAW is now launching our year 2001 Animal Sanctuary Fund to provide safe places for animals to live out of the danger tat comes from humans and loss of habitat. 
Whether it is to fund additional land for the Addo elephant park in South Africa where 29 calves were born this year or our partnership with Future Generations to save vital habitat for moon bears, bengal tigers and other animals, or our response to move orphaned lions to 500 acres of protected African bush where they will live safely for the rest of their lives we are committed to the concept of ANIMAL SANCTUARIES. 
I wont even ask if you support this program. 
I do not like to ask for money No one does. 
Be absolutely sure, your donations do save lives. 
Many people know us as the Save the Seals people and we have saved thousands of animals - seals, elephants, cats, dogs, bears, whales. 
I thought you would enjoy our 2001 Animal Sanctuary Calendar. 
Gifts of $100, $25, and $15 all are important to keep our Animal Sanctuary Fund operating. 
Animals dont ask for much of us. 
Your donation today could save a life tomorrow For the animals, Fred ORegan President PS. 
And please use the enclosed 2001 Calendar Reply when writing me back. 
LastName These are the pawprints of a homeless animal; an abandoned animal, shivering with fear, with no place to call home. 
At this wonderful time of the year, when people are celebrating, (Over, please) The only no-kill shelter thats there when you need us Little Shelter is crowded with animals waiting for homes. 
. 
a wet, starving kitten . 
If you could see them, I know you would want to help. 
Happy Holidays from all of us! 
Please accept the enclosed 2001 calendar and gift tags as a special greeting from our animal friends and Little Shelter. 
I hope you enjoy using them as you correspond with your friends and family and help us spread the word to protect ocean wildlife. 
beaches. 
And thousands of endangered sea turtles and other creatures continue to die each year unnecessarily due to wasteful fishing and over development, forces that keep these species in a fragile state. 
and take ... 
I trust, however, that you will give back. 
At a price nearly half off the regular membership dues, you will receive a host of member benefits (more on these in a moment)_and, far more important the satisfaction of actually doing something to improve the ocean world we pass on to our children. 
Your nickel a day can, when it joins the stream of other member donations, help stop water pollution at its source ... 
and defend seals, dolphins, and other ocean wildlife from the threat of entanglement and drowning in fishing nets and marine debris. 
Definitely yes! 
These are prime examples of hard fought victories and critical efforts that are working to improve the health of our marine environment. 
You can help us spread our message to protect ocean wildlife by using the enclosed labels on all your correspondence. 
And wont you also please make a tax-deductible contribution of just $15 --or more if you are able -- to help save the dolphins, whales, sea turtles, and other amazing marine creatures who so desperately need support from all of us these days! 
a free subscription to our exciting full-color quarterly newsletter, Marine Conservation News ... 
and an official membership card. 
Of course, your personalized labels are a gift, yours to keep whether or not you choose to join us. 
Isnt that really worth at least a nickel a day? 
And, if you are able to send a gift of $15 or more, as a special new member bonus, Ill send you our exclusive dolphin tote bag. 
During this holiday season, we must not forget the wildlife species that depend on us for their survival. 
While you are under no obligation for these small tokens of appreciation, we do hope that they will remind you to do your part in our conservation effort on behalf of all wildlife and wild places by... 
Ranger Rick is just one of our many wildlife publications. 
And were famous for distributing the one magazine in America thats been called the worlds most beautiful nature magazine, the award-winning NATIONAL WILDLIFE. 
Today you have the opportunity to join this successful cause by becoming a member of NWF for as little as $15 . 
Attractive wildlife stamps, calendars and cards. 
When you use it in place of plastic bags you help conserve our natural resources. 
And its a great way to show your commitment to conservation every day. 
Here are some of the projects in the forefront at NWF right now: Working to improve the water quality and water flow in the Florida Everglades so magnificent creatures like the gentle manatee can survive. 
Building on our success of reintroducing the gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park by expanding gray wolf recovery into suitable habitat in the United States. 
Despite our many victories, we still have far to go to ensure a healthy future for the wildlife and wild places of this nation. 
You will be making a world of difference in helping us continue to fight for the species that cant fight for themselves. 
Please use the enclosed holiday gift wrapping paper and gift tags to help spread the word about our mission of conservation to your friends and family. 
Thank you! 
Dear Name: Great destinations, your choice of itineraries, big bonus miles, and 3rd and 4th passengers cruise FREE now sailing away with Renaissance Cruises is more rewarding than ever. 
Renaissance Cruises vacations escort you from one fabulous destination to the next in a beautiful cabin aboard a brand-new ship. 
Optional shore excursions will provide the best opportunities for exploring the highlights of each fascinating port-of-call! 
Just look at these great itineraries! 
Low international airfare is also available. 
All schedules and itineraries are subject to change. 
Dear New Yorker, Finally television thats smart enough for New Yorkers! 
DTV is the ultimate choice in home entertainment. 
And the connection is FREE! 
But before you go out and make any major purchases, like buying a satellite dish, you may want to take a moment to read this. 
With DVT you dont just watch televisionyou experience it. 
DTV allows you to receive up to 29 channels of HBO, SHOWTIME, CINEMAX, THE MOVIE CHANNEL, STARZ! 
Quick and concise, an on-screen information banner automatically gives you the who, when, and where of whats on. 
No up front costs. 
FREE upgrades. 
24-hour customer support. 
Call now for a FREE connection to Time Warner Cable with DTV. 
Thats a savings of over $60.00! 
Call today for a FREE connection and save an additional $99.00! 
Dear Friend of Wildlife, A significant promise comes with your enclosed personalized address labels, which are ready for your immediate use. 
And thats our vow to work hard to protect our countrys wildlife and the wild places on which they  and all of us depend! 
And one we will keep for as long as there are people like you who care about our countrys wildlife and wild places. 
and help keep the promise alive? 
Using your address labels is an easy way to show you care about wildlife. 
We need your support today to help us face off against a noisy chorus of anti-wildlife forces who oppose all efforts at commonsense environmental protection. 
and our ability to protect threatened and endangered species. 
and the challenges that lie ahead. 
But membership carries many tangible benefits as well ... 
For a membership gift of just $15, you will receive a full year of the worlds most beautiful nature magazine, NATIONAL WILDLIFE. 
Its our FREE gift to you for joining now and a charming reminder that your support helps NWF protect valuable wildlife species like this one. 
But best of all, your membership provides you with an opportunity to make a real, personal difference in the world we all share. 
by using the convenient form attached to your personal address labels. 
Appreciatively, Mark Van Putten President P.S. 
Thats why I want to extend my appreciation for your last membership contribution of $500. 
In fact, I want to urge you to strengthen your dedication to saving life on Earth  by sending a generous leadership gift of $750 and becoming a member of World Wildlife Funds prestigious Living Planet Society. 
While we still have the chance. 
rescue more rhinos in Kenya and Nepal through our ambitious translocation projects ... 
and fight to halt all commercial whaling, as well as the whale meat trade. 
And with your increased commitment, we can battle against destructive global forces that transcend regional and national boundaries. 
For instance, our innovative Forests for Life Campaign establishes an international network of parks and reserves. 
Another WWF goal? 
The challenges we face are daunting, to be sure. 
I want to ask you, therefore, to renew your valued World Wildlife Fund membership and, hopefully, at the Living Planet Society level of $750. 
Now, with your increased commitment, we can save more of our planets cherished wild species and their irreplaceable habitats ... 
Once again, please accept my warmest gratitude for your past support And please, take a moment today to renew your critically important WWF annual membership. 
Sincerely, Kathryn S. 
As a Living Planet Society member, youll receive the wonderful array of benefits described in the enclosed brochure. 
Please let it be a constant reminder of all youre doing to preserve our endangered wildlife! 
MOST OF THE LIGHTS ARE OFF AND SUNLIGHT IS STREAMING THROUGH THE WINDOWS - DAY Camera follows closely, two feet walking down a stone hallway. 
The camera zooms out as the feet stop at a set of heavy, wooden doors. 
CLARK flips on the lights. 
CLARK turns the lights off and turns to leave but is met in the doorway by ERNST, who is wielding a fire poker. 
Mr. 
JEFFERY CLARK Ernst? 
It's me Jeffery. 
I didn't hear you knock, and Mister Tembo didn't tell me to expect you. 
ERNST is leading CLARK down another shadowy hallway. 
I didn't hear much of anything before I got on the plane. 
Perhaps it would be best if I let the doctor apprise you of the situation. 
Dr. 
Tembo's nephew, Jeffery Clark. 
DR. 
I wish I could say the same about your uncle. 
DR. 
Mr. 
JEFFERY CLARK What kind of accident? 
Tembo saved some bloody American's life...Oh, sorry Master Jeffery JEFFERY CLARK It's all right, Ernst. 
I thought Uncle Roland gave up hunting after that incident in San Diego. 
TAMBALA It was a sightseeing safari. 
Mr. 
The tour bus caught up with them a few minutes later, but one of the tourists was already dead, the other was hurt, and Roland was almost done for. 
DR. 
He is lucky to be alive, but he's completely paralyzed below the waist, and he's lost use of his right arm. 
DR. 
JEFFERY CLARK Can he speak? 
DR. 
INT - ROLAND'S BEDROOM - DAY CLARK makes his way into ROLAND's room. 
I.V. 
CLARK sits on the chair near ROLAND's head. 
ROLAND TEMBO >(Stirring slowly, attempting to move the mask) Jeffery, my boy, so good to see you. 
ROLAND TEMBO >(Smiling faintly) Very true. 
JEFFERY CLARK Mom sends her best. 
ROLAND TEMBO I know she and I haven't been as close as a brother and sister should have... 
ROLAND stops him. 
JEFFERY CLARK We're all going to die, Uncle. 
ROLAND TEMBO There was one hunt I never finished. 
JEFFERY CLARK The T-Rex? 
JEFFERY CLARK You used what you had, Uncle Roland. 
ROLAND TEMBO It could happen again, because I didn't bag the rex when I had the chance. 
ROLAND TEMBO Jeffery, I am not long for this Earth. 
ROLAND TEMBO >(Nodding) With that. 
JEFFERY CLARK >(Standing and walking toward the case) Is that Grandpa's gun? 
They created the rex, and from what I've read in the paper, they created a beast capable of killing the rex. 
ROLAND TEMBO >(interrupting) And we have to finish it. 
ROLAND TEMBO Jeffrey, please. 
JEFFERY CLARK Promise me one thing. 
JEFFERY CLARK Don't go anywhere until I bring you the trophy. 
CLARK exits and shuts the door behind him. 
- DAY Start with a wide shot of the cemetery. 
We can't see his face, but he makes his way over to two other individuals standing apart from the main group who we only see from the back. 
The other two people, GRANT and SATTLER turn to look at him. 
Grant, Dr. 
ALAN GRANT >(whispered) Dr. 
ELLIE SATTLER >(whispered) Hello, Ian. 
IAN MALCOLM Yeah, the rain delayed the flight. 
STRUG >(from the head of the congregation) ...Let us go now, not in sadness, but rejoicing in the knowledge that our husband, our father, our grandfather, and our friend has been granted eternal salvation and a place where he may walk with the angels in Heaven. 
IAN MALCOLM >(to casket) Well, John, for the first time in a long time, I don't know what to say. 
Ah, that's not what I meant to say...Maybe I'd better just leave it as "goodbye". 
MALCOM takes a single rose from inside of his jacket and tosses on the coffin. 
ALAN GRANT It is strange to think of how many deaths that he was partly responsible for, and it's only catching up to him now. 
He was just so intent on making history that he forgot the human cost could be devastating. 
Grant, Dr. 
Malcolm? 
SAMUEL PERKINS Hi, I'm Samuel Perkins, executor of Mr. 
While we were drawing up his final will, he wanted me to make sure I contacted you in person. 
SAMUEL PERKINS (CONT'D) If you'd like to stop by my office tomorrow, and I know you're all very busy, so I'd be more than happy to finish this up as soon as possible. 
BOOKCASES LINE THE WALLS, A TV ON A MOBILE STAND IS BEHIND THE DESK WITH A LEATHER CHAIR. 
I was no longer a lunatic who had seen dinosaurs with a bunch of other people who didn't. 
In retrospect, it wasnt worth lying. 
ALAN GRANT I'm sorry, Ian. 
It's water under the bridge. 
He is carrying a large manila envelope. 
I know we all have business to tend to today, so I'll be as brief as possible. 
SAMUEL PERKINS (CONT'D) I, Jonathon Parker Hammond, as my final wish request that the following video be shown only to Alan Grant, Ellen Sattler, and Ian Malcolm and only to the three of the aforementioned as a group of three on the occasion of my death." IAN MALCOLM Just your average "farewell from beyond the grave" boilerplate, huh? 
Hammond hated lawyers almost as much as he hated the language we use. 
Mr. 
ALAN GRANT (Searching for the word) He was... 
IAN MALCOLM To put it mildly. 
He is dressed in a robe and is clearly reclining in a hospital bed with I.V. 
JOHN HAMMOND G'day. 
I have passed from this life to, what I hope will be a merciful afterlife. 
Dr. 
Dr. 
I thank Dr. 
Before the disaster on Isla Nublar, I thought of myself as the creator of a perfect system, a god of the island itself. 
Thank you, Ian, for teaching me that there are some things Man cannot control. 
Grant, I want to thank you again for taking care of my grandchildren in the park. 
When I am gone they will need someone to be their caretakers, their advocates, and their guardians. 
I'm not asking you because I feel you owe me anything, quite the opposite, I am asking you to take this responsibility because you are the only three people in the world I know I can trust to make the right decisions. 
I've also set up a trust fund for the defense of the islands, Mr. 
Any other information you could need lies in the mind of Dr. 
He was my head engineer at Site B. 
Wang went to work for a firm in Seattle...GenetiCorp. 
God bless you, and good luck. 
Hammond said, I have all of the papers for the Dinosaur Defense Fund right here... 
All four people move closer to the TV as PERKINS turns the sound on. 
Witnesses estimate its length at about forty of fifty feet with gigantic, tooth-filled jaws. 
One of the dogs from the neighborhood ran up to it and started barking. 
The whole village shook. 
MELINA ORTEGA (CONT'D) (Motioning for the camera to point toward military vehicles in the background) As you can see behind me, the U.S. 
Apparently they were engaging in training maneuvers near the Panama Canal when word of this broke. 
Camera focuses on a tank. 
They're on the mainland. 
IAN MALCOLM Damn it, John, you knew this could happen. 
CNN ANCHOR Our thoughts and prayers for a safe return are with you, Melina. 
A grainy video recorded at early dawn shows a two-legged dinosaur tearing open a car and disappearing into the jungle. 
The picture quality isn't good, but you can clearly see what can only be described as a dinosaur attacking a car. 
CNN ANCHOR (CONT'D) Of course, we haven't seen anything like this since the 1997 incident in San Diego, when a Tyrannosaurus Rex created by InGen got loose and went on a rampage through the city. 
GRANT, SATTLER, and PERKINS are all glued to the TV when there is a knock at the door. 
A young Army officer steps into the office. 
Alan Grant and Dr. 
ALAN GRANT That's us. 
LT. 
IAN MALCOLM What? 
LT. 
ALAN GRANT Look, Miss... 
AMY BRANNIGAN It's Lieutenant, Lieutenant Brannigan. 
It's just that a lot has happened in such a short time, and I think we're all just going to need a little time to put it all together. 
AMY BRANNIGAN Sir, I know you might feel that way right now, but I have been ordered to bring you with me without delay. 
Grant here, Lieutenant. 
AMY BRANNIGAN Sir, there are two Military Police officer waiting in the hall and two more outside. 
ALAN GRANT Well, Ian, it looks like we'd better go. 
Wang. 
ELLIE SATTLER You think this has something to do with the incident in Costa Rica? 
EXT - ISLA SORNA - DAWN EXT - CLARK IS CROUCHING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE T-REX NEST ON ISLA SORNA. 
- DAWN CLARK reaches up to press a button on his left shoulder. 
I have been to all of the locations that the animals were said to frequent but without avail. 
I regret that I am coming home from this hunt empty-handed. 
COSTA RICA - MIDDAY EXT - A BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER LANDS IN SAMARA, COSTA RICA. 
- MIDDAY As the helicopter lands, GRANT and MALCOLM debark. 
GEN. 
Grant, Dr. 
Sorry we had to drag you here so abruptly, but you know what they say about desperate times. 
Grant. 
SANCHEZ leads GRANT and MALCOLM down to the beach. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ (CONT'D) Frankly, I've never seen anything like this. 
We didn't know what to make of it at first, and how to preserve the specimen was a bit ambiguous, but one of our Marines was a big paleontology nut and had read all about you and your work and how to preserve delicate fossils. 
GEN. 
IAN MALCOLM What I saw was a dinosaur in a highly-developed, downtown area with nowhere to hide. 
It might as well be back on the island. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ But you did see the dinosaurs on the islands? 
GEN. 
IAN MALCOLM Yes, but I'm sure Dr. 
ALAN GRANT Scared, Ian? 
I have been brought into a dinosaur-infested area to provide advice I'm not competent to give. 
It's only one. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Regardless of your objections, Dr. 
The government wouldn't have brought you into this area unless it felt you would be an asset. 
GEN. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ (CONT'D) What do you make of that, Dr. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Okay, I'll call the Pentagon. 
IAN MALCOLM Spinosaurus? 
IAN MALCOLM Odd, we didn't. 
IAN MALCOLM I didn't read much of anything on your misadventure on Site B. 
I was actually working with Universal in L.A. 
I only accepted the offer to help fund the research we're doing in Montana. 
Do you think the public will buy that? 
Several Marines shout as they hurry to cover the footprint. 
GEN. 
You are not authorized to land here, return to your point of origin immediately. 
He is carrying a large duffel bag and wearing khaki trousers, khaki shirt, and a black ball cap. 
The chopper takes off as the man is surrounded by Marines and Humvees. 
IAN MALCOLM (pointing toward the circle of Marines and the man) I think he's going over to greet the newcomer. 
He is at gunpoint and on his knees with his hands behind his head. 
The man, CLARK, who has his hands cuffed behind his back is being lead over to SANCHEZ. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ (shouting at CLARK) Just who the hell are you and what the hell do you think you're doing? 
GEN. 
This is a no-fly zone. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ You can't be serious. 
I'm here now, and I'll be on my way back to the island just as soon as I buy some food. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Oh no, you're not. 
What island were you hunting on? 
IAN MALCOLM You were hunting dinosaurs? 
JEFFERY CLARK (CONT'D) (recognizing MALCOLM) Wait, are you Ian Malcolm? 
Do I know you? 
IAN MALCOLM I wouldn't say I knew him that well. 
GEN. 
Mr. 
As much as I hate it, you are stuck here until the beast is captured. 
What beast? 
GEN. 
Grant! 
ALAN GRANT What *about* the rexes? 
Two adults and the baby. 
JEFFERY CLARK So there might be two more dinosaurs on the mainland? 
IAN MALCOLM He's right. 
Maybe the Spinosaur killed the other two in the interim since he killed the first one maybe they swam for it and drowned. 
CPL. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ What is it? 
CPL. 
GEN. 
CPL. 
It's smaller, Sir. 
GEN. 
GEN. 
It's about fifteen or twenty kilometers up the coast. 
A T-Rex moving at full speed was clocked at thirty-some miles per hour. 
GEN. 
It had plenty of time to get up there. 
RICK TOWNSEND Sir, we have reason to believe the tracks were made less than an hour ago. 
GEN. 
ALAN GRANT And what's the size difference? 
RICK TOWNSEND Twelve inches, Sir. 
CPL. 
JEFFERY CLARK (motioning to his hands) General, would you mind? 
JEFFERY CLARK (CONT'D) What about my bag? 
HORATIO SANCHEZ It's still being searched. 
In the mean time, stay put. 
GRANT's phone rings. 
The shot cuts between each speaker as they talk. 
ELLIE SATTLER Alan, it's Ellie. 
How are you doing? 
ELLIE SATTLER I found Dr. 
He was less than willing to be helpful, but I managed to glean a few things. 
ELLIE SATTLER As it turns out, the spino was one of the first dinosaurs bred on the island. 
ELLIE SATTLER Alan, the spino and the rexes don't need supplemental enzymes to survive. 
ALAN GRANT Then how can we stop them? 
ALAN GRANT Thanks, Ellie. 
GRANT walks back toward SANCHEZ, MALCOLM, and CLARK. 
Sattler? 
IAN MALCOLM What did she find out? 
HORATIO SANCHEZ (walking back from the tent) Who's Dr. 
GEN. 
ALAN GRANT It means the animals can exist indefinitly eating non-lysine-enriched food. 
ALAN GRANT I'm afraid so. 
Clark, I can't in good conscience let a civillian go on his own when there are not one, but two, dangerous creatures still running amok. 
JEFFERY CLARK Are you talking about my uncle's elephant gun or my rifle? 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Jesus, Clark, it's a fifty caliber anti-material rifle, not your everyday deer gun. 
ALAN GRANT Wait a minute. 
IAN MALCOLM You think the rex is chasing the Spinosaur? 
If they destroyed your trailers because you took their infant, imagine what they'd have done if you had killed it. 
How would it have even tracked it? 
The T-Rex was only a few hours behind the Spinosaur. 
GEN. 
I think it's pretty clear that we seal off Costa Rica's borders. 
IAN MALCOLM Considering, General, that these animals swam two-hundred miles to get here, I think it's safe to say they could swim from here to South America without much difficulty. 
If we find the T-Rex, it will lead us to the Spinosaur. 
First we'll have to figure out a more secure method for containing them. 
GEN. 
Grant, the official position is to neutralize the threat as quickly as possible. 
If we build a better cage, they are just going to break out again and again. 
We are the only people who can protect the animals and the island. 
IAN MALCOLM How many disasters will it take, Alan? 
When the good of the world is on the line, we have to sacrifice the good of our charges. 
Punish them for evolving? 
We don't have time for a philosophical debate here. 
ALAN GRANT Fine. 
I suggest that we send one person to track him. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Any suggestions as to who the one person might be? 
HORATIO SANCHEZ Him? 
Do you feel up to it? 
GEN. 
JEFFERY CLARK Also provided that I am the one who takes the Tyrannosaur. 
HORATIO SANCHEZ What is it, Townsend? 
PIRATES OF THE CARRIBEAN: DEAD MAN'S CHEST by Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio [view looking straight down at rolling swells, sound of wind and thunder, then a low heartbeat] Scene: PORT ROYAL [teacups on a table in the rain] [sheet music on music stands in the rain] [bouquet of white orchids, Elizabeth sitting in the rain holding the bouquet] [men rowing, men on horseback, to the sound of thunder] [EITC logo on flag blowing in the wind] [many rowboats are entering the harbor] [Elizabeth sitting alone, at a distance] [marines running, kick a door in] [a mule is seen on the left in the barn where the marines enter] [Liz looking over her shoulder] [Elizabeth drops her bouquet] [Will is in manacles, being escorted by red coats] ELIZABETH SWANN Will...! 
WILL TURNER I don't know. 
ELIZABETH SWANN I think it's bad luck for the groom to see the bride before the wedding. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT His Lord now... 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT In fact, I *do*. 
The warrant for the arrest of one William Turner. 
That's annoying. 
Arrest her. 
WILL TURNER No! 
Here's the one for William Turner. 
Is he present? 
WILL TURNER Lord Beckett! 
ELIZABETH SWANN We are under the jurisdiction of the King's governor of Port Royal, and you will tell us what we are charged with. 
Perhaps you remember a certain pirate named Jack Sparrow. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Captain Jack Sparrow. 
Scene: BLACK PEARL [views of rigging ropes and blocks aboard a ship at night] [Gibbs walks the deck alone at night, singing and drinking from a bottle] GIBBS Fifteen men on a dead man's chest. 
Drink and the devil had done for the rest. 
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! 
[Jack breaks the skeleton's leg off] JACK SPARROW Mind if we make a little side trip? 
[Jack uses the skeleton leg as an oar, rows toward the full moon and a waiting ship in the distance to the right of the moon] Scene: BLACK PEARL [Jack arrives at the Black Pearl in his coffin rowboat] [Gibbs holds out his hand to help Jack aboard, Jack puts the skeleton leg in Gibbs' hand] [Cotton drapes a coat onto Jack's back] GIBBS Not *quite* according to plan. 
GIBBS You got what you went in for, then? 
GIBBS Captain, I think the crew, meaning me as well, were expecting something a bit more... 
What with the Isla de Muerta going all pear shaped, reclaimed by the sea, and the treasure with it. 
MARTY And the hurricane! 
Perhaps dear old Jack is not serving your best interests as captain? 
Walk the plank! 
LEECH Do not blame the bird. 
JACK SPARROW It does me. 
It is a *drawing* of a key. 
LEECH Keys... 
*things*? 
So, we're setting out to find whatever this key unlocks! 
If we don't have the key, we can't open whatever it is we don't have that it unlocks. 
GIBBS So - We're going after this key! 
Any more questions? 
Do we have a heading? 
A heading. 
mmm... 
in *that* way - direction. 
[Marty and Gibbs gather alone by the railing] MARTY Have you noticed lately... 
-er. 
Somethin's got Jack vexed. 
[the Black Pearl is shown at night in a thunderstorm] Scene: PORT ROYAL: EITC HEADQUARTERS [a painter is painting a detail on a mural of a world map] [a guard brings Will in manacles into Beckett's office] GUARD Lord Beckett. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Those won't be necessary. 
How do you know him? 
And we've each left our mark... 
WILL TURNER What mark did he leave on you? 
I would like you to go to him, and recover a certain property in his possession. 
[Beckett goes over to a wooden box on a table and opens it] LORD CUTLER BECKETT Letters of Marque. 
The world is shrinking, the blank pages of the map filled in. 
Not unlike you, Mister Turner. 
WILL TURNER The property you want that he possesses. 
Ah, you know it. 
Scene: BLACK PEARL [Jack is using calipers on a map, using his left hand, a "P" brand mark is seen on his right arm] [an hourglass is in the background, Jack taps the Compass] [Jack looks in his bottle, turns the bottle upside-down, only a few drops spill out] JACK SPARROW Why is the rum always gone? 
[Jack goes downstairs to the hold, an animal bleats, Jack unlocks the door, goes in] [Jack sees eerie filter feeder creatures festooning a beam of wood] [Jack spots a rack of bottles, with the bottles stored sideways like in a wine rack] JACK SPARROW Ah! 
Bill Turner. 
[Bootstrap immediately hands Jack a bottle of rum] [Jack pries the bottle from Bootstrap's hand with a crackling sound] JACK SPARROW I had some help retrieving the Pearl, by the way. 
[Jack takes a drink from the bottle] JACK SPARROW And to what do I owe the pleasure of your carbuncle? 
JACK SPARROW Ah. 
He shanghaied you into service, eh? 
[Jack looks at the palm of his left hand, where a black spot boils into view] [Jack looks up, but Bootstrap has disappeared] Scene: BLACK PEARL: ON DECK [Jack runs across a wooden deck that has a shallow covering of water] JACK SPARROW On deck all hands! 
On deck! 
JACK SPARROW All on deck! 
GIBBS Do we have a heading? 
Ooh! 
Euh! 
JACK SPARROW Didn't say port. 
Any land. 
[the monkey snarls at Jack, Jack snarls back at the monkey, in imitation] [the monkey throws Jack's hat overboard] GIBBS Jack's hat! 
JACK SPARROW No no! 
Run! 
JACK SPARROW Shhh! 
JACK SPARROW Nothing. 
Fo pes sa kapazun kapitan de la mezande, huh? 
Fetsoran ipitos. 
arrive, huh? 
Vangas da eroro ### [a large object is seeing moving underwater toward their vessel, creating a disturbance on the ocean surface as it moves] kapitan ### Scene: ### [a loud thumping sound occurs, the two sailors freeze in fright] [a third sailor sleeps on deck] [one sailor presses the hat against the other's chest, indicating he doesn't want it anymore] Scene: Port Royal prison [Will and the governor rapidly descend stone steps into the prison] [the guard at the bottom of the steps holds a long gun with a bayonette on the end] CARRUTHERS Here now. 
CARRUTHERS Mister Swann, - ELIZABETH SWANN Jack's Compass. 
WILL TURNER Does it matter? 
In exchange the charges against us will be dropped. 
Where will you find him? 
I'll start there, and I won't stop searching 'til I find him. 
ELIZABETH SWANN If it weren't for these bars I'd have you already. 
WILL TURNER Keep a weather eye on the horizon. 
Owes me four dubloons. 
HALF-BLIND FISHERMAN: Singapore. 
Drunk with a smile on his face. 
will turn up in Singapore. 
[Giselle slaps Will in the face] [a black man who is a shrimper is sitting on a dock, mending his nets] [in the background is a bunch of bananas on the dock, and a goat being loaded aboard a ship] SHRIMPER Cannot say about Jack Sparrow. 
Cannot say about Jack. 
A ship wit' black sails. 
[the shrimper's brother is rowing Will toward the shore] [the rower stops rowing] WILL TURNER What's wrong? 
SHRIMPER'S BROTHER: ?: Je ne peux, c'est trop dangereux, j'avais le dit. 
[Will jumps off the rowboat, swims ashore, wearing his sword] [aerial view, flying over jungle toward beach, showing Will wading ashore] [Will walks alongside the Black Pearl, which is tied with ropes to stakes in the sand] WILL TURNER Jack! 
WILL TURNER Marty! 
Anybody? 
WILL TURNER Ah! 
COTTON'S PARROT: Rawk! 
WILL TURNER I'm not gonna eat you. 
No! 
Akkk! 
[Will follows the string attached to the canteen, over toward a large tree] [human eyes open in the background, from a man camouflaged against a nearby tree] [the camouflaged cannibal shouts and jumps out from the tree at Will] [Will is yanked back by a snare, and dangles upside-down from a rope] [cannibals charge out of the bushes from all directions, Will keeps them at bay with his sword] WILL TURNER Euh! 
Ya! 
Let's go! 
Ya! 
Who wants it? 
I could do this all day! 
Euh! 
Jack Sparrow! 
[Jack says nothing, arises from his throne, walks over to Will] [Jack pushes one finger into Will's shoulder, as if testing how much meat Will has on him] WILL TURNER Jack! 
Will Turner! 
?: Een dah-lah. 
CANNIBAL CROWD Eeseepi. 
JACK SPARROW Kay-lay lam. 
Lam eensy weensy. 
eunuchy. 
CANNIBAL CROWD Ahhh... 
[Jack begins to walk away, as if disinterested, his Compass hangs from his waist] WILL TURNER Jack! 
That's all I need, Elizabeth is in danger. 
She faces the gallows! 
Savvy? 
What about Elizabeth? 
Prisoners Where you goin'...?) ELIZABETH SWANN Why don't you tell me what's happening? 
Will has gone to find Jack! 
[a horse and carriage are waiting, the governor opens the door to the carriage for Elizabeth] ELIZABETH SWANN A fair trial for Will ends in a hanging. 
Shame, huh? 
It's a letter to the King. 
[horses and soldiers arrive to cut off the governor from fleeing from the dock] [the carriage door is opened, but the carriage is empty, Elizabeth is gone] MERCER Where is she? 
[Elizabeth slips into the dark room from an interior door, hands held behind her] ELIZABETH SWANN Then what is? 
ELIZABETH SWANN I expect then that we can come to some sort of understanding. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I'm listening. 
ELIZABETH SWANN These Letters of Marque, they are signed by the King? 
It will do you no good. 
ELIZABETH SWANN I have been to Isla de Muerta, I have seen the treasure myself. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Ah, I see. 
So perhaps you may wish to enhance your offer. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT So I did. 
Or fate intervenes. 
ELIZABETH SWANN These aren't going to Jack. 
To ensure Mister Turner's freedom, then? 
Consider that in your calculations. 
Anyways, I ain't stealin' no ship. 
It's *salvagin'*! 
RAGETTI Since we're not immortal no more. 
PINTEL You know you can't read. 
You get credit for trying. 
*That's* a mark against ya! 
There it is! 
PINTEL Must've seen a catfish. 
[both laugh, the dog reaches shore and looks back at them] RAGETTI Stupid mongrel! 
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. 
###PINTEL: It's ours for the taking! 
Well, salvagin' is saving, in a manner of speaking. 
### [cannibal drums sound] RAGETTI Suppose we be'er... 
What with our souls in such a vulnerable state, and all. 
[the dog barks] Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: throne [cannibal drums are pounding] [Jack is on the throne, a cannibal hands Jack a necklace of human toes] JACK SPARROW Thank you. 
If Jack is their chief. 
But he only remains chief as long as he *acts* like a chief. 
He's a captive then as much as the rest of us. 
as it turns out. 
WILL TURNER Where's the rest of the crew? 
weren't built 'til *after* we got here. 
WILL TURNER Well, we can't just sit here and wait then, can we? 
No no! 
Big fire! 
I am chief! 
Come on! 
Maboogie snickel-snickel. 
Come on! 
[the cannibal standing next to Jack leaves to put more wood on the fire] [the cannibals put large pieces of wood on the fire] [the cannibals turn around to find that Jack is gone] Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: Jack [Jack is running across a foot bridge] [Jack runs up to a cliff edge, totters at the edge, looking down] [Jack examines a length of bamboo pole he finds lying there] [Jack goes into a hut, sees various supplies, the sound of buzzing flies is heard] [Jack picks up a rope, starts to exit, halts, looks back inside] [Jack goes back in, picks up a can of paprika with the EITC logo on the bottom] [Jack walks outside the hut, the entire tribe is waiting silently outside, staring at him] JACK SPARROW Oh bugger. 
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cages [the men begin swinging the cages with increasingly wide arcs] [both cages finally come within reach of the cliff, they grab vines and hang on to the cliff] GIBBS Put your legs through, start to climb! 
WILL TURNER Come on men! 
LEECH Actually, you won't need everyone. 
Ohhh... 
[Gibbs nods] WILL TURNER Hurry! 
Go! 
Go! 
Give it all you got! 
Hey ### WILL TURNER Stop! 
Stop! 
Shhh! 
... 
50] [when the man holding the snake lets go, their cage falls, the rope breaks, and their cage falls to the bottom] WILL TURNER Move! 
Fye-fye! 
Fye-fye! 
[the crowd stands silently, not knowing whether to stay or to chase the escapees] JACK SPARROW Well, go on! 
Hay ala! 
Ala, ala! 
No no! 
No no! 
[Jack blows futilely at the igniting wood] Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cage [the remaining cage reaches the top of the cliff] WILL TURNER Cut it loose! 
Lift it like a lady's skirt! 
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: hut [Jack is running off with the bamboo pole tied to his back] [Jack encounters the cannibal boy, standing silently with a fork and a knife, one in each hand] [Jack grabs the knife from the boy, and begins cutting his rope off] [two cannibal women appear] [Jack charges, but the bamboo pole on his back spears a coconut in a pile near the cliff edge] [Jack turns suddenly, which flings the coconut off the end of the pole into a cannibal's face] [the cannibal slowly lifts the dripping coconut off his face, scowling at Jack] Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cage [the cage rolls over a ledge into a small chasm holding a river] [cannibals throw spears and shoot arrows at the men in the water, the men swim underwater] GIBBS This way, lads! 
Da litozo! 
Uh-boogie? 
[Jack's pole slips loose, he falls into the chasm, screaming] [As Jack falls through the first rope bridge, the rope comes undone but is still attached to the bamboo pole and to Jack] [Jack is hung upside-down in the chasm when the bamboo pole catches] [Jack falls through a total of six rope bridges] [Jack lands on his back on grass] [bamboo pole comes down at him, spears the ground near his head] [fruits tumble down afterwards] Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: beach [only Ragetti and Cotton's parrot are aboard the Black Pearl, Pintel is on the beach below] PINTEL Pull-loose/Unloose the mooring lines! 
[the monkey chatters, grabs Ragetti's wooden eye] RAGETTI Thief/Thing! 
Give it back! 
PINTEL Unloose the mooring lines! 
GIBBS Excellent work! 
PINTEL We done it for you! 
GIBBS Make/Making ready tosail/cast-off ###, boy. 
I won't leave without him. 
[Jack appears at a distance, running down the beach toward the crew and ship] [a crowd of cannibals suddenly run down on the beach behind Jack, pursuing him] WILL TURNER Time to go. 
###! 
[the crowd of cannibals falls silent as the ship leaves] [the dog barks excitedly at the departing ship] [all heads in the crowd of cannibals turn toward the dog] [the dog falls silent, whimpers, then flees back down the beach] [the cannibals chase the dog, shouting] Scene: Black Pearl GIBBS Let's put some distance between us and this island, and head out to open sea. 
GIBBS Uh, that seems a bit contradictory, Captain. 
I want to shoot *something*. 
JACK SPARROW Ah. 
WILL TURNER She *is* locked up, in a prison, bound to hang for helping *you*! 
[Will pulls a sword from the waistband of a pirate who is turned around, points it at Jack] WILL TURNER I need that Compass of yours, Jack. 
[Jack pushes Will's sword aside] JACK SPARROW Mister Gibbs! 
trifling need, uh/a... 
JACK SPARROW No, a... 
*You* want you to find this. 
what's-her-face. 
WILL TURNER This... 
JACK SPARROW How much do you know about Davy Jones? 
JACK SPARROW Yeah, it's gonna save Elizabeth. 
If you both fancy the dress, you'll just have to share, and wear it one after the other. 
This ship is haunted. 
female presence... 
all the men... 
The ghost of a lady, widowed before her marriage, I figure it. 
A virgin, too, likely as not. 
BURSAR I say... 
QUARTERMASTER No! 
What we need to do is find out what the spirit needs, and then just get it back! 
Enough! 
Now this appears to be no more as we have a stowaway aboard. 
I want you to search the ship and find 'er. 
she's probably naked. 
GIBBS Well, if you believe such things, there's a beast does the bidding of Davy Jones. 
And drag an entire ship past the crushing darkness. 
[Marty turns around at mention of the word, Pintel and Ragetti look at each other] GIBBS They say the stench of its breath is like - ooh! 
If you believe such things. 
*Her*. 
GIBBS Aye. 
Nigh inseparable we are. 
GIBBS I'll watch your back. 
Mind the boat. 
MARTY Mind the boat. 
Mind the boat! 
[Tia sees Will standing in the doorway, goes up to him] TIA DALMA You. 
TIA DALMA You want to know *me*. 
We've come for help and we're not leaving without it. 
Hmmm? 
JACK SPARROW I brought payment. 
[Jack cocks his pistol, shoots the monkey, the bullet has no effect, but the monkey chatters in fright] JACK SPARROW An undead monkey! 
[Tia lifts the cage door, the monkey scampers off] GIBBS No! 
TIA DALMA The payment is fair. 
And what it goes to. 
It cannot lead you to dis? 
Why? 
Jack Sparrow does not know what he wants! 
do know, but are loathe to claim it as your own. 
GIBBS What *is* inside? 
Jewels? 
[a jar of eyeballs is hanging next to Ragetti's face as he speaks] TIA DALMA You know of... 
A man of de sea. 
WILL TURNER What vexes all men? 
RAGETTI Dichotomy of good and evil. 
GIBBS No-no-no-no, I heard it was the *sea* he fell in love with. 
See, it was a *woman*, as changing, and harsh, and untamable as the sea. 
But the pain it cause 'im was too much to live wid. 
WILL TURNER What... 
TIA DALMA Him heart. 
PINTEL He couldn't li'erally put his heart in a chest! 
TIA DALMA It was not wort' feeling what... 
WILL TURNER You knew this. 
I didn't know where the key was. 
So all that's left is to climb aboard the Flying Dutchman, grab the key, you go back to Port Royal and save your bonnie lass, hey! 
[Jack shows his right hand is untouched, but Tia unwraps the bandage on his left hand] [the black spot on Jack's left hand is revealed] GIBBS Uhhh! 
[Gibbs quickly wipes his hands on his chest, spins around once to the left, and spits] Black spot! 
[Pintel and Ragetti copy Gibbs' ritual, in synchrony] JACK SPARROW My eyesight's as good as ever, just so you know. 
Land is where you are safe, Jack Sparrow. 
jar of dirt going to help? 
JACK SPARROW No. 
WILL TURNER It seems... 
[Tia throws the crab claws down on the table to see how they fall] [fade to aerial view of rocky islands whose positions match the positions of the crab claws] Black Pearl [pan beyond the rocks to the Black Pearl just offshore, in stormy weather] [the Black Pearl crew look at the scuttled ship on the rocks] WILL TURNER That's the Flying Dutchman? 
JACK SPARROW Neither do you. 
[Jack gives Gibbs a meaningful glance, elbows Gibbs] GIBBS Must've run afoul of the reef. 
WILL TURNER I row over, search the ship until I find your bloody key. 
WILL TURNER I cut down anyone in my path. 
Simple, easy to remember. 
Ha, ha-ha-ha, ha-ha! 
If you *do* happen to get captured, just say Jack Sparrow sent you to settle his debt! 
RAGETTI Bon voyage! 
WILL TURNER There's no use. 
WOUNDED SAILOR No! 
Foul breath! 
Hey! 
[Will slices open the stomach of one of the invaders, fish spill out of it onto the deck] [Will battles the invading crewmembers, but one of them knocks Will unconscious] Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. 
The rest have moved on. 
Do you fear that dark abyss? 
All your sins punished. 
an escape-uh. 
DAVY JONES To the depths. 
[unidentified crewman] Cold blooded - ! 
Why should the afterlife be any *different*? 
Join my crew, and postpone the judgment. 
Will ye serve? 
DAVY JONES Grand. 
What is your purpose here? 
DAVY JONES What is your purpose here? 
Have you not introduced yourself all these years as *Captain* Jack Sparrow? 
JACK SPARROW Aha! 
DAVY JONES Price? 
JACK SPARROW Just how many souls do you think my soul is worth? 
[Maccus blocks Jack from exiting] DAVY JONES I keep the boy. 
That leaves you only ninety-nine more to go. 
Worth at least four... 
And did I happen to mention... 
With a girl. 
would only be half as cruel as actually allowing them be joined in holy matrimony. 
DAVY JONES I keep the boy. 
But I wonder, Sparrow, can you live with this? 
JACK SPARROW Yep! 
Should we seal it in blood? 
DAVY JONES Three days. 
[Pintel whimpers, with a knife held to his neck from a crewmember of Jones' ship] [Jack looks at his hand, it's covered with slime, but the black spot disappears under the effect of the slime] JACK SPARROW Oh, Mr. 
GIBBS Aye. 
GIBBS And how do you intend to harvest these ninety-nine souls in three days? 
GIBBS Ah... 
JACK SPARROW Tortuga. 
Port tariffs, berthing fees, *wharf* handling, and heaven help us, pilotage. 
BELLAMY A *pirate* port is what you mean. 
An honest sailor is what I am. 
[a white dress floats by the cabin window, outside] BURSAR S-S-Sir! 
do something. 
[the dress sweeps over a lantern, knocking it over and part of the deck ignites] BELLAMY Over there! 
[the crew rush to the railing and look out at the sea] [Elizabeth, up on the mast overhead, sighs in exasperation] QUARTERMASTER Look there! 
QUARTERMASTER S-Seaweed can be a sign. 
That would be a bad sign. 
[Elizabeth is now sitting on a platform on the deck behind the men, pointing at the deck where the lantern fell] [the men at the railing turn around and look where Elizabeth is pointing] [the fire burning on the desk spells out "Tortuga" in fiery letters] Tortuga [men are tied up with ropes alongside a well, camera pans past the well] [a man is tied up and being dunked in the well, and is spouting water from his mouth] [crowded tavern, glass bottles are being shot off of people's heads for entertainment] [a duo of musicians is playing a guitar and accordion] GIBBS And what makes you think you're worthy to crew the Black Pearl? 
I figure I should get out and see the world while I'm still young. 
Make your mark. 
JILTED MAN My wife ran off with my dog. 
And I don't give a ass rat's if I live or die. 
Next! 
GIBBS It's the crow's nest for you. 
GIBBS Next! 
Forever. 
That gives us - four! 
NORRINGTON My story... 
I chased a man across the Seven Seas. 
GIBBS Commodore? 
I nearly had you all, off Tripoli. 
hurricane. 
You didn't try to sail through it? 
[unidentified woman] Oh! 
[Norrington spots Jack sneaking off behind him, points a pistol at Jack] NORRINGTON Or should I just kill you now? 
NORRINGTON Sorry. 
[unidentifed man, to Norrington] Easy, sonny! 
GIBBS Aye! 
[the two men throw the carried man off the balcony, then Jack continues on his way] [the music stops, Norrington threateningly holds a bottle in his left hand] NORRINGTON Come on, men! 
Form an orderly line, I'll have you all one by one. 
[from behind, Elizabeth grabs the bottle from Norrington, smashes it over his head, knocking him out] ELIZABETH SWANN I just wanted the pleasure of doing that myself! 
Heave! 
Heave! 
Heave! 
BO'SUN: Step to-it/tight! 
BO'SUN: Regain-yourselves!/Mind-yourself! 
[the crew haul Will to his feet] BO'SUN: Five lashes to remind you... 
BO'SUN: Impeding me in my duties. 
DAVY JONES Will you now? 
DAVY JONES Ha ha ha ha! 
What fortuitous circumstance be this! 
I believe it is. 
Your issue will feel its sting be it the Bo'sun's hand, by your own. 
[Bootstrap reluctantly takes the whip] [two crewmen tear Will's shirt off, exposing his bare back] [Bootstrap whips Will's back five times] [Will is tossed into a lower part of the deck, partially filled with water] [Will stands up, wearing an intact white shirt] BO'SUN: You had it easy, boy! 
WILL TURNER I don't need your help! 
FLYING DUTCHMAN below deck [Bootstrap and Will enter the interior of the ship together] [crewmember Wyvern is seen to their right, encrusted into the interior side of the hull, standing up] WILL TURNER I've sworn no oath. 
The key. 
WILL TURNER What do you know of this? 
No-no-no-no. 
The Dutchman needs a living heart, or there'll be no captain. 
WILL TURNER So the captain has the key. 
WYVERN Hidden. 
WYVERN Hidden. 
JACK SPARROW Come to join me crew, lad? 
ELIZABETH SWANN I'm here to find the man I love. 
[Norrington vomits over the side] ELIZABETH SWANN Meaning William Turner, Captain Sparrow. 
It should be a dress or nothing. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack. 
Where is he? 
through an unfortunate and *entirely* unforeseeable series of circumstances that have nothing whatsoever to do with me, poor William has been press-ganged into Davy Jones' crew. 
[Norrington vomits over the side, then spits] NORRINGTON Oh, please. 
JACK SPARROW You look bloody awful. 
NORRINGTON You *hired* me. 
JACK SPARROW You *smell* funny. 
Is that what you really want most? 
JACK SPARROW Because I would think, you'd want to find a way to *save* Will the most. 
JACK SPARROW Well, there is a chest... 
JACK SPARROW A chest of unknown size and origin. 
RAGETTI Unh-unh... 
unh-unh... 
saving brave William from his grim fate. 
ELIZABETH SWANN How do we find it? 
My Compass... 
NORRINGTON "Unique" here having the meaning of broken. 
This Compass does not point north. 
JACK SPARROW It points to the thing you want most in this world. 
JACK SPARROW By finding the chest of Davy Jones. 
GIBBS Cap'n. 
GIBBS Finally! 
JACK SPARROW Miss Swann. 
Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh... 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I had you brought here because I thought you'd be interested in the whereabouts of your daughter. 
*And* other fugitives from justice. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Your authority as governor, your influence in London, and your loyalty to the East India Trading Company. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT So you see, Mercer, every man has a price he will willingly accept. 
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck [slow motion scene of falling dice] [three crewman are playing Liar's Dice] [organ music is heard in the background] MACCUS I wager... 
KOLENIKO I'll match ten years. 
WILL TURNER I understand. 
WILL TURNER It's a game of deception. 
WILL TURNER What are they wagering? 
WILL TURNER I challenge Davy Jones. 
An eternity of servitude. 
WILL TURNER I want this. 
WILL TURNER That's not part of the game, is it? 
[One of Jones' tentacles pulls out the key from his vest to display it] [the tentacle puts the key back] [Bootstrap sits down at the table] DAVY JONES What's this? 
Don't do this. 
WILL TURNER Four fives. 
WILL TURNER Eight fives. 
Welcome to the crew, liar. 
Bootstrap Bill, you're a liar and you will spend an eternity on this ship! 
Why did you do that? 
FLYING DUTCHMAN organ room [nighttime on deck of the Flying Dutchman] [Will emerges from a hatch on deck] [Will sneaks past one one the crew on deck, who is sleeping with a bottle in his hand] [Jones is asleep at his organ, snoring] [Will sneaks into his room, behind him] [Will grabs a nearby quill pen, uses it to lift one of Jones' tentacles] [one tentacle accidentally falls on an organ key, almost waking up Jones] [the falling tentacle also sets off a locket on top of the organ, that plays a song] [Will holds one of the staves in his mouth while lifting the tentacles] [Will finally removes the key, replaces it with his drawing of the key] FLYING DUTCHMAN deck WILL TURNER It's not a fate you had to choose for yourself, either. 
WILL TURNER I take this with a promise. 
And not rest until this blade pierces his heart. 
I promise. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Yes, they're signed, Lord Cutler Beckett of the East India Trading Company. 
GIBBS Will was working for Beckett, and never said a word. 
GIBBS Beckett wants the Compass. 
JACK SPARROW Of course. 
JACK SPARROW A truly discomforting notion, love. 
Bad for every mother's son what calls himself a pirate. 
Brace the foreyard! 
ELIZABETH SWANN Persuasion. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Decidedly not. 
Yet you're the one standing here with the prize. 
JACK SPARROW No. 
ELIZABETH SWANN You do know Will taught me how handle a sword. 
There was a time when I would've given anything for you to look like that while thinking about me. 
NORRINGTON Oh, I think you do. 
I trust him, that's all. 
Edinburgh Trader BELLAMY Strange thing to come upon a longboat so far out in open waters. 
As fast as you can. 
[Will sees Elizabeth's white wedding dress on a chair in the cabin] WILL TURNER That dress. 
BELLAMY It was found aboard the ship. 
WILL TURNER That's foolish. 
Proceededly foolish. 
And we made a nice bit of profit there. 
WILL TURNER I imagine... 
BELLAMY Why do you ask? 
BELLAMY Colors? 
BELLAMY Pirates! 
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck [Jones is on deck, having found the cloth that Will swapped for the key] [Bootstrap is held at knife point on board the Flying Dutchman] [one crewman holds a sawfish sword as a restraining weapon in front of Bootstrap] DAVY JONES You will watch this. 
Let no man look up at the sky with hope! 
the *Kraken*! 
It's the Flying Dutchman! 
What happened? 
[a Kraken tentacle silently seizes one crewman while other crewmembers have their backs turned] [the Kraken tentacle surfaces in the distance, holding the crewman who was just seized, he screams] *Kraken!* [crewman rings the ship's bell wildly] Scene: ### [music stops, slow motion scene, a huge tentacle rises high over the ship] [the tentacle comes down on deck, breaking the ship in two, bouncing men off the deck] [slow motion scene, men slide off of tilted deck] [Will is flung underwater, sees the body of the Kraken in the distance underwater] [Will surfaces, climbs aboard a floating board of ship debris] [the Flying Dutchman comes near Will, Will slides off his board to swim towards the ship] [view from the bow of the Flying Dutchman, looking at the floating debris, including a face-down corpse] [Elizabeth's wedding dress is also debris, and floats on the surface of the sea] FLYING DUTCHMAN deck MACCUS The boy's not here. 
DAVY JONES *I* am the sea. 
What of the survivors? 
[the remaining crewmen are simultanenously axed from behind] [Will witnesses the axing, ducks behind a beam] [Jones turns around, sensing Will, but sees nothing] DAVY JONES The chest is no longer safe. 
Get me there first, or there'll be the devil to pay. 
DAVY JONES Who sent that thieving charlatan onto my ship? 
Jack Sparrow. 
I *am*... 
Right here. 
Right... 
[Elizabeth recoils at Jack's breath on the word "now"] ELIZABETH SWANN No, thank you. 
Us. 
Except for a sense of honor, and decency and-and a moral center. 
[Jack smells his armpits] JACK SPARROW Trifles. 
ELIZABETH SWANN You seem very certain. 
You long for freedom. 
To act on selfish impulse. 
One day, you won't be able to resist. 
JACK SPARROW Uh my Compass works fine. 
To do the right thing. 
something courageous. 
Want to know why? 
ELIZABETH SWANN Curiosity. 
A chance to be admired. 
You won't be able to resist. 
GIBBS Land ho! 
Scene: Longboat [Pintel and Ragetti are rowing a longboat with key members of the crew inside] [Jack in the bow, Elizabeth and Norrington are in the back] PINTEL You're pullin' too fast. 
We don't want the Kraken to catch us. 
And I don't think it's Krack-en, anyways. 
RAGETTI No-no-no-no-no-no-no. 
RAGETTI It's a mythological creature, I can calls it what I wants. 
Don't touch my dirt. 
And it *certainly* doesn't show you what you want most. 
You're sitting on it! 
JACK SPARROW Move. 
PINTEL Don't mind if I shine your shoes, Sir? 
And I cannot step foot on land again for near of a decade. 
[ugly, nondescript crewmember] Down! 
[view from the deck of the Flying Dutchman as it submerges, some underwater footage] [Pintel and Ragetti are astounded to see the ship submerge in the distance, Ragetti's balanced shovel falls] [Pintel and Ragetti run off to warn the others] Scene: ###! 
NORRINGTON You actually *were* telling the truth. 
[Will has unexpectedly appeared on the beach, walking up toward them] ELIZABETH SWANN Will! 
Thank God! 
[Will and Elizabeth kiss] JACK SPARROW How did you get here? 
A pair of them, strapped to my feet. 
WILL TURNER After you tricked me onto that ship to square your debt with Jones. 
JACK SPARROW What? 
JACK SPARROW Oh! 
you're welcome, then. 
every word, was a lie! 
Time and tide, love. 
What're you doing? 
[Jack draws his sword, points it at Will] JACK SPARROW Can't let you do that, William. 
Now. 
[Will backs up slowly, then suddenly draws Elizabeth's sword, points it at Jack] WILL TURNER I keep the promises I make, Jack. 
I hope you're here to see it. 
So sorry. 
[Norrington points his sword at Jack] NORRINGTON Lord Beckett desires the contents of that chest. 
JACK SPARROW Ah. 
NORRINGTON Oh, I prefer to see it as the promise of redemption. 
Be careful! 
WILL TURNER Guard the chest! 
[duel resumes] ELIZABETH SWANN This is bar-*baric*! 
Oh! 
Let's just - *pull* out our swords and start *banging* away at each other! 
I've had enough! 
*pirates*! 
Enough! 
Mister Norrington, I think he's tryna regain a bit of honor. 
And Turner there - I figure 'e's tryna... 
PINTEL Sad. 
RAGETTI Oh! 
Terrible temptation. 
Oh...! 
[Elizabeth pretends to faint, which knocks off her hat] [Elizabeth watches sideways as the duelists continue fighting, oblivious to her] [Elizabeth soon sits up, puts on her hat] [Pintel & Ragetti run by in the distance behind her, with the chest] [Elizabeth sees Pintel & Ragetti, and goes to chase them] [various duel scenes on the beach] ELIZABETH SWANN Bugger! 
[Norrington runs off to chase Jack up the hill] [the crew of Flying Dutchman emerge from the shallows] [one crewmember holds chain shot as a weapon] ISLA CRUCES church [Jack and Norrington run through bushes on the beach, then up to a dilapidated stone church on the hill] [P2] [Norrington chases Jack up steps inside the building, Jack kicks Norrington back down with his foot] [Jack and Norrington have a swordfight on the inside steps] [Jack grabs hold of the bell rope, which carries him downward, and carries Will upward, who just arrived] WILL TURNER By *your* leave, Mister Norrington. 
WILL TURNER Be my guest. 
Who was it, who at the very moment you had a notorious pirate safely behind bars, saw fit to *free* said pirate, and take your dearly beloved all to hisself, hey? 
He's *right*! 
[Jack picks up his sword from the ground, and puts the key around his neck] [Jack walks through a graveyard, falls into an open grave] JACK SPARROW Wup! 
[Norrington backs Will onto the top of the mill's waterwheel] [the axle of the wheel breaks off with Norrington and Jack dueling on top] [Jack is facing the other direction, so is unaware of the freed wheel rolling behind him] [the wheel crashes through a small fence, turns, and rolls directly towards Jack] [the waterwheel rolls over Jack, and Jack is pulled into the inside of the wheel] JACK SPARROW Woah! 
[a sword is thrown to Elizabeth, just in time] PINTEL Sword! 
Aunido! 
Follow my voice! 
To the left, uh... 
Go to the left... 
That's a tree. 
[Jack unlocks the small chest with the key, square security bolts suddenly protrude when opened] [the heart is inside, beating] [crewmen of the Flying Dutchman approach, Jack tucks the heart into his vest] [Elizabeth uses two swords together, one in each hand, to stab backwards and kill two attacking crewmen] ISLA CRUCES beach [Jack is the first to arrive back at the longboat on the beach] JACK SPARROW Jar of dirt! 
[Pintel & Ragetti attempt to escape by longboat, but Will blocks their progress] [Pintel & Ragetti reach for their swords, to find their swords gone] [Pintel & Ragetti grab a fishnet and oar as weapons against Will] PINTEL Come on, Turner! 
Unless you plan on using him to hit something with. 
NORRINGTON Not with the chest. 
[Norrington takes the chest] ELIZABETH SWANN You're mad. 
[the remaining Black Pearl crew escape by longboat] [Hadrus is holding his conch shell head under one arm, the head speaks to Norrington] HADRUS Your bravery is wasted. 
[Norrington pauses, looks around] NORRINGTON Here you go! 
[Norrington flees, Hadrus drops his head onto the ground when catching the chest] [Hadrus' crewmates laugh and walk off with Hadrus' body, ignoring Hadrus' head] HADRUS Uh! 
Aunido! 
Pirates! 
GIBBS Where's the Commodore? 
GIBBS My prayers be with him. 
The bright side is: You're back. 
[the Flying Dutchman suddenly surfaces alongside them] GIBBS Lord almighty.us. 
JACK SPARROW Hey! 
Oup! 
[Jack stands up, struts across the deck, holding his jar of dirt] JACK SPARROW Come to negotiate, eh, have you, you slimy git? 
I got a jar of dirt! 
[the Flying Dutchman's cannon covers slide down, cannons emerge from the holes] JACK SPARROW Hard to starboard. 
GIBBS Hard to starboard! 
Fire! 
She's on us! 
[cage-faced crewmember] Aye, Captain. 
ELIZABETH SWANN She's falling behind! 
WILL TURNER We rob her advantage. 
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck DAVY JONES They're out of range! 
[crew cheers] WILL TURNER My father is *on* that ship. 
We should turn and fight. 
All one needs... 
[suddenly the Black Pearl is badly jarred] [Jack's jar of dirt falls to the deck, breaks open, spills all the dirt] [Jack runs down to the spilled dirt, searches frantically for the heart, which is gone] JACK SPARROW Where is it? 
It's not a reef! 
ELIZABETH SWANN What is it? 
To arms! 
WILL TURNER It'll attack the starboard. 
Break out the cannons and hold for my signal. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Will? 
[the tentacles start feeling around the ship] WILL TURNER Hold. 
PINTEL I think we've held fire long enough. 
[the crew fire the cannons, hitting the tentacles and nearly severing some] [the Kraken sinks into the sea, some tentacles glowing from the blast] [the crew cheers] WILL TURNER It'll be back. 
ELIZABETH SWANN There's no boats. 
Get all the gunpowder onto the net in the cargo hold. 
ELIZABETH SWANN As soon as you're clear. 
Six barrel/below. 
GIBBS There's only half a dozen kegs of powder! 
[Gibbs seems shocked, then turns to see the entire crew halted, staring at him in shocked silence] GIBBS Aye! 
GIBBS Heave! 
[Pintel & Ragetti stand to one side of a cannon port as a tentacle pulls one crewmember through sideways] [Will hangs onto the side of the net of gunpowder barrels, attempting to attract the Kraken's attention] WILL TURNER Euh! 
Come on! 
Elizabeth, shoot! 
GIBBS No. 
We're not out of this yet. 
Orders! 
The Pearl! 
ELIZABETH SWANN He's right, we have to head for land. 
RAGETTI That's a lot o' wa'er. 
We can get away as it takes down the Pearl. 
Abandon ship or abandon hope. 
JACK SPARROW We're not free yet, love. 
I always knew you were a good man. 
There's no time to lose! 
This is the only way, don't you see? 
[Elizabeth leans in as if to kiss him again.] JACK SPARROW Pirate. 
ELIZABETH SWANN He elected to stay behind to give us a chance. 
[the longboat casts off] [Jack struggles with his manacles] JACK SPARROW Bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger...! 
[Jack spots his old hat lying next to his feet] JACK SPARROW Oh! 
[slow motion scene of Jack boldy charging toward the Kraken's mouth, sword drawn] [Q3] FLYING DUTCHMAN deck DAVY JONES Jack Sparrow. 
KOLENIKO The captain goes down with his ship. 
DAVY JONES Open the chest. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Is there any news on the chest? 
But... 
He had these. 
[from his desk, Beckett beckons Norrington with two fingers] LORD CUTLER BECKETT If you intend to claim these, then you must have something to trade. 
NORRINGTON Better. 
BAYOU Tia's shack [the remaining crew paddles through the waters to Tia Dalma's shack] [many natives stand in the waters surrounding the shack, holding candles, mourning Jack Sparrow] [inside the shack, Will absent-mindedly keeps throwing his father's knife into the table top] [Tia carries a tray around to all of them, offers the mugs to Elizabeth] TIA DALMA Against de cold... 
[Elizabeth takes a mug but doesn't drink] TIA DALMA It's a shame. 
Along with its captain. 
And already the world seems a bit less bright. 
But I guess that honest streak finally won out. 
RAGETTI Never another like Captain Jack. 
ELIZABETH SWANN He was a good man. 
Elizabeth... 
Hmmm? 
would you? 
What would *any* of you be willing to do? 
Would you sail to the ends of the eart', and beyond, to fetch back witty Jack and 'im precious Pearl? 
COTTON'S PARROT: Awk! 
ELIZABETH SWANN Yes. 
TIA DALMA Alright. 
you will need a captain who knows dose waters. 
Iraq clears visit by Ohio official By Scott Montgomery Washington The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. 
Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday. 
Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign. 
In 1996 the WHO found that much of the population existed in a state of ``semi starvation.'' Hall will be only the second member of Congress to travel in Iraq since the war, according to Hall's office. 
Rep. 
oilmen in diplomatic trouble. 
Flights are not permitted into Iraq. 
Ohio Congressman Arrives in Jordan AMMAN, Jordan (AP) U.S. 
trade sanctions. 
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job." The Iraqi government blames the embargo for the malnutrition, infant mortality and other hardships. 
Lawmaker Appeals for Innocent Iraqis By HASSAN ABDULWAHAB, Associated Press Writer BASRA, Iraq (AP) A U.S. 
sanctions on Iraq said Wednesday it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis. 
Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis. 
But he insisted the international community can do a much better job in helping Iraq deal with its economic and health problems. 
humanitarian program, he said. 
The U.S. 
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington) Rep. 
Hall, who recently returned from a trip to Iraq, said U.N. 
By AUSTIN ZALKIN. 
Robert G. 
The ethics panel also ordered Torricelli to pay back Chang -- with interest -- for the full value of a large-screen television set and compact-disc player, and for expensive earrings that Chang gave to Torricelli's sister, to one of his close aides and to one of Torricelli's former girlfriends. 
The ethics panel, to which evidence from the criminal case was forwarded, concluded its review just as Torricelli is gearing up his campaign for re-election against the Republican candidate, Douglas R. 
After months in which polls showed Torricelli well ahead of his relatively unknown Republican rival, the contest has narrowed in recent weeks. 
Packwood later resigned. 
Daniel K. 
"The document speaks for itself," said Inouye, who said that he considered the matter closed with the letter. 
Torricelli also insisted that he had not done any unusual favors for Chang, who first turned to the senator in 1995 for help in winning the repayment of some $71 million he said he was then owed in a failed business deal with the North Korean government. 
The committee did not confirm some of the most serious allegations, including Chang's claim that he gave Torricelli tens of thousands of dollars in cash. 
But at the time of Chang's sentencing, the judge, Alfred M. 
In Torricelli's case, it acted without conducting a full investigation, saying the case had been exhaustively scrutinized by federal authorities. 
Simon, said Tuesday night that he was disappointed that the ethics panel had confirmed only a handful of the gifts he said his client had given Torricelli, and that the panel did not deal with what he said were actions by Torricelli to thwart the federal investigation. 
According to two government officials involved in the inquiry, the Ethics Committee received a vast amount of information from federal investigators, some of it under a court order issued in March. 
Balaban. 
Nor did it cite a $1,590 Oriental carpet that Chang gave to Torricelli's former wife, Susan Holloway Torricelli. 
The committee confirmed Torricelli's claims he had made partial repayments to Chang for two gifts: a large-screen television and a stereo compact-disc player. 
A person familiar with Torricelli's testimony to the committee said he had told its members that he repaid the "wholesale" cost of the appliances because Chang told him that was what he had paid. 
The statues, the existence of which had not been publicly known before, were displayed in Torricelli's Senate office. 
The senator's belief "that such items were of little value or were not gifts to you under the circumstances" displayed poor judgment and violated Senate gift rules, the panel found. 
The analysis, which was assembled from banking and credit records, income-tax returns and congressional financial-disclosure forms, showed by March of 1998, Torricelli's cash expenditures were more than $22,000 in excess of the cash he had generated from checks and automatic-teller machines, an official who has reviewed the document said. 
"Senator Torricelli provided the committee with a full explanation of sources of income and any funds used for cash purposes," she said. 
The United States cut virtually all military links with Indonesia in 1999 after its forces were implicated in the violence that swept East Timor after that territory voted for independence. 
"We recognized that terrorism is a global threat and that the disturbing acts of terrorism and transnational crimes, which continue to threaten world peace and stability, must be tackled by the international community," the ministers said in a communique on Tuesday. 
Terrorism dominates the agenda, though the possibility of a meeting here between Powell and his North Korean counterpart, Paek Nam Sun, has generated the most news. 
Powell heads to Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, late on Thursday before finishing a weeklong trip through the region in the Philippines on Saturday. 
Indonesia is already receiving $400,000 in the current fiscal year for civilian training programs and is to receive a like amount next year; and the United States expects to provide an additional $16 million this year to train police officers in counterterrorism. 
But a senior State Department official also acknowledged that some in the administration and Congress are pushing for more direct military cooperation, which would require congressional approval. 
Megawati is committed to this cause," Powell said in Singapore. 
In Malaysia, Powell met with Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who has led the country since 1981. 
His brief stop in Malaysia also highlighted the moral ambiguities of the effort to prevent terrorism and its emphasis on cooperation with governments that the United States has often criticized. 
Powell said his discussions with Mahathir "touched on the case" of his former deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, who is serving a 15-year sentence on charges of sodomy and abuse of power after trials that Powell said the United States had "always felt" were flawed. 
MICROSOFT TEAMS WITH AT&T TO OFFER SOFTWARE FOR WIRELESS DEVICES AND SERVICES Microsoft plans to announce on Wednesday a partnership with AT&T Wireless Services to offer software for wireless devices and services, a person close to the talks said Tuesday night. 
Microsoft's efforts to persuade wireless carriers to use its cell phone operating system have struggled. 
But Microsoft's potential advantage, analysts say, is its ability to link its cell phone software to its desktop PC software, a Microsoft stronghold. 
In recent months, Microsoft has announced partnerships with wireless carriers like Verizon and Sprint PCS. 
Floyd did not produce the kind of offense the Expos expected from him, so Omar Minaya, the Expos' aggressive rookie general manager, turned around and sent him to the Red Sox in exchange two South Korean pitchers and a player yet to be named. 
deadline for making trades without first getting waivers on players. 
Colon has won four of five decisions for the Expos, but Floyd batted only .208 for them while hitting three home runs, including one Tuesday night, and driving in four runs. 
The Expos, who had a 46-41 record when they made their first Floyd deal, had only a 7-12 record with him on the team, dropping from 9 1/2 games behind Atlanta in the National League East to as many as 16 games back. 
The Red Sox signed him in 1997. 
The Red Sox signed him in 1999. 
They led the Yankees for most of the first three months of the season but then slipped behind them in the American League East. 
EX-HOG OFFERS JUMP-START AND HELPS CHANGE LIVES WASHINGTON With the barrage of crack cocaine-connected killings in the 1980s came the realization that young people were too often full-fledged players in the violence. 
"There was death in D.C. 
"It wasn't like New York's or Boston's organized crime. 
It was a 14-year-old from R Street who got his crew of six together and ran their drug block killing another 14-year-old and his crew from a block away. 
I could see that you needed the private sector involved." Starke could see that in many instances these were cases of lost dignity. 
Starke, I'm tired of going to bed at night with a Tech-9 gun under my pillow."' And Starke was tired of seeing Washington and its young people suffer a black eye. 
The school, now in its third year, has been so successful that it recently received a $2 million grant from Congress. 
The program is coordinated with the University of the District of Columbia. 
Thanks to Starke's vision, leadership and fund-raising, they can do it all free. 
He was recently named one of the 70 greatest Redskins. 
In 1988 he bought a Ford dealership. 
"I saw a lot of kids and young men out there with no dads and no structure who couldn't read and some of them were beginning to realize that there is no growing old as a crack dealer -- you either die or go to jail," he said. 
The institute has a full-time staff of 18. 
Seventy students are participating in summer classes. 
Angela Nafis, 47, of Ecuador, has been in the school for a year. 
Charles Easterling, 24, said he had been enrolled for a month but lived "wherever." "I'm homeless now trying to find a place to lay my head," he said. 
Easterling said he would do whatever it took to become stable. 
Not bad for a guy who was kicked out of high school in 1997 for threatening a teacher. 
"It shows if you have the will and the dedication here you can learn a lot and be something. 
This school is like a big family." Edward Jewell, 56, retired from his job as a copyright assistant at the Library of Congress in 1993. 
"I needed a new skill. 
I get up and come down here at 6 a.m. 
I'm grateful to George Starke to have had the vision to set something like this up, not just for me but for all the students. 
And when I become a technician, I will help the poor and needy by giving them affordable rates." Starke said the school would move to a building near the city's bus depot in the fall. 
He is proud of the red Cobra 427 that sits in the school's workshop. 
His current class is rebuilding a black one. 
"I just wanted to be a part," said Starke, who is certain he is the lone Redskin, past or present, who lives in the city. 
"A lot of kids are afraid of 'the process' and I wanted to take 'the process' out. 
A little more than 50 percent of our kids make it through. 
The anonymous buyer, believed to be an individual collector who lives in the United States, made the winning bid in a fiercely contested nine-minute auction at Sotheby's in Manhattan. 
In an unprecedented move, the auction proceeds were split by the U.S. 
Henrietta Holsman Fore, the director of the U.S. 
silver dollar, which sold for $4.14 million in 1999. 
"I have never seen as much interest in the sale of any coin in my 30 years in the business," said Lawrence R. 
"This is the Mona Lisa of coins," said Beth Deisher, editor of Coin World, the largest weekly coin publication in the United States, with a circulation of 85,000. 
Forbidden fruit." Collectors' Web sites have surged with speculation about the sale price, and enthusiasts even organized betting pools. 
The tension in the crowd was broken with a burst of applause after the $5 million mark, and a louder explosion at $6 million. 
Most bidders dropped out after that price. 
The sale price of $6.6 million, when added to the commission, totaled $7.59 million. 
"So the auction was almost like the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the convention," Stack said. 
In 1792, it was deemed that all gold and silver U.S. 
They were called double eagles because their face value was twice that of the original $10 gold piece. 
Roosevelt took the United States off the gold standard, and ordered all the 1933 saints already manufactured destroyed, save for two reserved for the Smithsonian Institution. 
Presumably after being stolen by a mint employee, nine double eagles surfaced during the mid-1940s and 1950s. 
But before these coins came to light, the royal legation of Egypt turned up with one at the Department of the Treasury, and somehow got an official to issue an export license for the coin to enhance the collection of King Farouk. 
His arrest in Manhattan, after attempting to sell the coin for $1.5 million, led to a court battle over whether -- thanks to the Treasury's mistaken export permission in 1944 -- the coin could be legally owned. 
The coin once again escaped destruction when it was moved from the Treasury Department vault in 7 World Trade Center eight months before the building collapsed after the Sept. 
The record price was seen as a gift by coin collectors. 
In a ceremony after the sale, Fore of the mint declared the coin the only 1933 double eagle ever to be legally issued by the U.S. 
ETHICS COMMITTEE CITES TORRICELLI'S 'POOR JUDGMENT' Following are excerpts from the findings of the Senate Ethics Committee's report on Sen. 
Torricelli's dealings with David Chang: 1. 
Chang, rather than fair market retail value, evidenced poor judgment, displayed a lack of due regard for Senate rules and resulted in a violation of the Senate Gifts Rules (35) and, consequently, a violation of your public disclosure obligations under Senate rules. 
Your acceptance on loan from Mr. 
3. 
Chang to individuals (your sister, an employee and a friend) in your home at Christmas on the mistaken belief that such items were of little value or were not gifts to you under the circumstances, evidenced poor judgment, displayed a lack of due regard for Senate rules and resulted in a violation of the Senate Gifts Rule (35) and, consequently, a violation of your public disclosure obligations under Senate Rule 34. 
Continuation of a personal and official relationship with Mr. 
Chang (contacting United States Government officials, writing letters to foreign government officials and involving Mr. 
5. 
Chang was convicted of attempting to corruptly persuade a witness to give false testimony, a conspiracy to violate the federal election law and four violations of the federal election law. 
After evaluating the extensive body of evidence before it and your testimony, the committee is troubled by incongruities, inconsistencies and conflicts, particularly concerning actions taken by you which were or could have been of potential benefit to Mr. 
. 
Further, the committee notes section 1(c)(1) of the Senate Gift Rule (35) concerning anything which is paid for at market value or returned . 
. 
The committee understands that you have previously delivered the bronze statues to the Department of Justice, from whence they should be returned to Chang. 
DEWAN NEW YORK This 30-second commercial is the first in H. 
ON THE SCREEN The words "His resume is an American dream," a quotation from Time magazine, appear on the screen. 
They show him as an Army lieutenant, at his swearing-in as a state senator, as ambassador to the United Nations, surrounded by children as New York City school board president, and at other jobs, leading up to his current position, state comptroller. 
Carl McCall" appear on the screen. 
Carl McCall, Army lieutenant, state senator, ambassador to the United Nations, school board president, Citibank vice president, and one of the most effective comptrollers in New York history." The candidate says: "I grew up poor with a single mother. 
It can open doors to opportunity. 
As governor, I'll make sure that every kid in New York has the same opportunity I had, to get a good education." ACCURACY This advertisement is long on introductions and short on claims of merit. 
He had the title of ambassador when he was at the United Nations, but he was not the chief of the American mission. 
As for the claim about his success as comptroller, where he controls the state pension funds, there is no disputing the funds' growth during his terms, but some critics say it had more to do with the buoyancy of the stock market in the 1990s than skilled management. 
For one, it counters the high name recognition of Andrew M. 
It also emphasizes leadership, an important campaign issue after Sept. 
At the same time it gives McCall a chance to intertwine his boot-straps story with the broader issue of children and education, a priority of many Democratic voters. 
Nelson, 44, had been the only woman of 14 people on New Jersey's death row. 
The state attorney general's office has not decided whether to seek the death penalty again, a spokesman, Peter Aseltine, said Tuesday. 
Marshall, convicted of arranging the murder of his wife at a picnic area on the Garden State Parkway. 
New Jersey has not had an execution since 1963. 
Zazzali and Justice Virginia Long said in a separate opinion that in addition to the reasons given in the majority opinion, also written by Zazzali, they believed the death penalty would constitute cruel and unusual punishment because of Nelson's history of emotional disturbance. 
Koskovich, who was 18 when he killed two pizza deliverymen in an ambush. 
While all five members of the majority found the instructions to the jury on weighing aggravating and mitigating factors to be confusing, two of those justices wrote in a partial dissent that the prosecutor's statements in his summation about the defense's expert witnesses were within the bounds of acceptable argument. 
Poritz and Justice Peter G. 
Nelson, born Glenn Nelson, had severe psychological problems and a history of reclusive behavior into adulthood, and was convicted on a weapons charge in 1988. 
In April 1995, while she was living with her parents in Haddon Heights, outside Philadelphia, law enforcement officers arrived at the house with a warrant for Nelson's arrest on another weapons charge. 
She pleaded guilty to murder and was sentenced to death by a jury in 1997. 
Marshall, an insurance agent from Toms River, was convicted of hiring a man to kill his wife while the couple were going home after an evening of dining and gambling in Atlantic City. 
Yet his anti-democratic behavior is an embarrassment to Washington and an affront to his own people. 
Ibrahim, who holds dual United States and Egyptian citizenship, is 63 years old and ailing. 
Ibrahim's harsh punishment sends a chilling message to Egyptians yearning for a more accountable and tolerant society. 
Like every other government institution, they hew closely to Mubarak's wishes. 
Ibrahim might never have been tried had he not written an article taking note of Mubarak's efforts to create a presidential dynasty. 
That aid bonanza was granted to reward Mubarak's predecessor, Anwar Sadat, for signing a peace treaty with Israel. 
In recent months President Bush has spoken of the need to promote democracy in the Arab world. 
It is time to extend this policy to Egypt. 
It is a country with a long and glorious history, a substantial middle class, a peace treaty with Israel and large quantities of American aid. 
Its official media are awash in anti-American and anti-Semitic propaganda. 
This is entirely insufficient. 
EDITORIAL: GOVERNOR PATAKI WEIGHS IN The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, July 31: Responding to a wave of public dismay over the first designs for rebuilding Lower Manhattan, Gov. 
While rethinking the plans will delay the original rebuilding schedule slightly, it does not need to stall progress if the governor keeps the pressure on the Lower Manhattan Development Corp. 
Renegotiating that issue with the World Trade Center leaseholders should begin immediately. 
Within the next few weeks the Lower Manhattan Development Corp. 
Lowering West Street alongside the World Trade Center site and building a park or esplanade on top is another option that has been popular with those reviewing the first six public proposals. 
Pataki's recent remarks are a sign that he understands how central the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan will be to his own political legacy. 
EDITORIAL: A PALLID CLEAN AIR PLAN The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, July 31: President Bush has now unveiled his long-awaited "Clear Skies" proposal, which he promises will simplify and strengthen the Clean Air Act without crippling American industry. 
But the Bush plan falls well short of the only other credible proposal on the table, a bill sponsored by Sen. 
Like Jeffords, the president calls for substantial reductions in three major pollutants -- the nitrogen oxides that produce smog, sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, and mercury. 
He aims to reduce all three by 70 percent by 2018. 
Finally, the Bush proposal would roll back key provisions of the existing Clean Air Act that Jeffords would keep. 
But some regulations, aimed at specific regional problems that nationwide trading alone is unable to address, cannot lightly be abandoned. 
Indeed, Bush has already made clear his intention to roll back one of the most important of these regulations, a provision known as new source review that compels utilities to install modern pollution controls whenever they significantly upgrade older plants. 
The Bush bill, as written, is not the way to get there. 
The e-commerce free zone is situated in north Dubai, near the industrial free zone in Jebel Ali, the top regional and tenth international leading area in container transit. 
Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy". 
He said that it would he possible for the companies working in the electronic trade sector to make Dubai their headquarters, and to establish offices here and provide employment and own machinery in the zone opened to companies fully owned by the foreigners. 
NYT20020731.0376 2002-07-31 23:53 A4931 &Cx1f; ttc-z r s BC-BBA-ANGNOTE-LADN 07-31 0711 BC-BBA-ANGNOTE-LADN ANGELS MAKE TRADE TO GET OUTFIELD DEPTH (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) By JOE HAAKENSON c.2002 San Gabriel Valley Tribune ANAHEIM, Calif. 
In addition to Ochoa, the Angels got minor-league catcher Sal Fasano. 
By rule, the players to be named later cannot be players on the active major-league roster. 
Orlando Palmeiro was the only backup outfielder on the major-league roster and the outfielders in the minor-league system are too inexperienced to be counted on in a pennant race. 
Ochoa has played in the majors for five different teams starting in 1995. 
Going into this season, he was a career .281 hitter. 
"He's a good defender, he has a good arm, he plays the tough right-field position and plays it well. 
"From a realistic standpoint, were we going to find an outfielder that pushed one of our outfielders to the bench? 
He said he's fine with his role as a reserve outfielder and pinch hitter. 
"It's not the big, earth-shattering stuff," right fielder Tim Salmon said. 
It didn't seem like we had a lot of holes to fill. 
Molina spent all season at Triple-A Salt Lake before joining the major-league club July 17 to replace his injured brother, Bengie. 
"I feel bad for Jorge, he's a good friend of mine," Bengie said. 
I'm very excited we'll be on the same team for a while." Jose went into Wednesday's game hitting .304 and had thrown out 33 percent (two of six) of baserunners trying to steal. 
"I just hope they keep me here," Jose said. 
"I felt like I was a big part of the team. 
The Russian, Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, who was arrested by the Italian authorities at his resort home in Forte dei Marmi, appeared to have a singular motivation for rigging the competitions: getting a visa to return to France, where he once lived. 
The French ice dancers, Marina Anissina and Gwendal Peizerat, later won the gold over a Russian team. 
Over the past four years, four judges have been suspended, including a Ukrainian who was taped by a Canadian judge detailing the order of finish for the ice dancers before the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan. 
The United States is seeking his extradition from Italy. 
The FBI said explicit conversations about the scheme had been recorded between Tokhtakhounov and his conspirators, and between him and Anissina, who was born in Russia and skated for France, and her mother. 
1." After the Winter Olympics, a French judge, Marie-Reine Le Gougne, was suspended by the International Skating Union for not reporting pressure she said was put on her by Didier Gailhaguet, president of the French Skating Federation, to vote for the Russian pairs team. 
The ISU later suspended Le Gougne and Gailhaguet for three years. 
attorney for the Southern District of New York, said at a news conference. 
"She's a scapegoat and a target of a corrupt system and was unfairly singled out." Tokhtakhounov, whose age was given by Comey as 53 or 62, is a "major figure in international Eurasian organized crime," Comey said. 
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, he has been implicated in arms trading and Russian art smuggling, and in the Russian news media he was accused of complicity in a plot to extort $10 million from the head of a Russian sports foundation. 
Comey said Tokhtakhounov had three residences in Italy: Forte dei Marmi, Rome and Milan. 
( Gailhaguet and Anissina are not referred to by name in an accompanying FBI agent's affidavit, but by their descriptions their identities are obvious.) In return, Gailhaguet told the FBI on Feb. 
But when Gailhaguet sought guidance from a French government official, he was told that "Tokhtakhounov's money is bad," the affidavit said. 
later suspended Le Gougne and Gailhaguet for three years. 
"We have alleged no connection between this man with any officials other than with Russian federation officials," James B. 
attorney for the Southern District of New York, said at a news conference. 
"She's a scapegoat and a target of a corrupt system and was unfairly singled out." Tokhtakhounov, whose age was given by Comey as 53 or 62, is a "major figure in international Eurasian organized crime," Comey said. 
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, he has been implicated in arms trading and Russian art smuggling, and in the Russian news media he was accused of complicity in a plot to extort $10 million from the head of a Russian sports foundation. 
Comey said Tokhtakhounov had three residences in Italy: Forte dei Marmi, Rome and Milan. 
( Gailhaguet and Anissina are not referred to by name in an accompanying FBI agent's affidavit, but by their descriptions their identities are obvious.) In return, Gailhaguet told the FBI on Feb. 
But when Gailhaguet sought guidance from a French government official, he was told that " Tokhtakhounov's money is bad," the affidavit said. 
On Feb. 
The second mobster said the French pair had "only three judges," and of the two judges they needed to win the gold medal "one is ours, and the other our friends will give them." Their concern for lining up more votes than they thought the Italian ice dancers had may stem from the Italian team's defeat of Anissina and Peizerat in the 2001 world championships. 
Also on Feb. 
She also apologized for not calling to thank him earlier, but that Gailhaguet had forbidden her. 
He assured her that it was nonsense, but that Gailhaguet "knows my name very well -- he tried to help me, and later he made stuff up to scare you so you would not connect me to him even more." The conversations seem to indicate a familiarity between Tokhtakhounov and Anissina. 
That Russian organized crime may have infiltrated international sport at the Olympics stunned Phyllis Howard, president of the U.S. 
"This is a criminal act and it certainly puts things in a different league," Howard said. 
NYT20020731.0371 2002-07-31 23:38 A4917 &x1f; taf-z u f BC-IBM-CHIPS-1STLD-WRITE 07-31 0925 BC-IBM-CHIPS-1STLD-WRITETHRU-(TRIM)-NYT IBM OPENS $2.5 BILLION CHIP PLANT IN UPSTATE NEW YORK (SUBS 1st graf with CORRECTION. 
-- IBM opened a sprawling and sophisticated semiconductor factory here on Wednesday that cost more than $2.5 billion to build and equip, the largest single capital investment the company has ever made. 
But it is also an expression of confidence by the company that it can remain a technology leader in the highly competitive global semiconductor industry, and a commitment that the best place to execute that strategy is in upstate New York. 
It is spending more than $500 million a year on semiconductor research and development. 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) In remarks during a ribbon-cutting ceremony here on Wednesday, Gov. 
Pataki said he expected the facility to generate thousands more jobs in the Hudson Valley area for contractors and suppliers catering to the factory. 
In a brief speech, Samuel J. 
"To play to win in technology, you innovate and you lead," he said. 
In June, IBM announced that it was taking a charge of more than $2 billion against earnings. 
But Kelly said the demand for advanced chips, like those produced at IBM's facility in Burlington, Vt., is strong. 
But industry analysts said the plant should be insulated from a falloff in one or a few segments of the semiconductor market. 
"The diversity is the big difference with this plant," said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a research firm. 
Throughout the 500 processing steps, which typically last 20 days, the wafers are not touched by human hands. 
Human operators are there to monitor the systems, catch errors and fine-tune the production process for maximum efficiency. 
The operators at the East Fishkill factory wear light nylon uniforms, light blue shoe coverings and translucent hair nets made of paper. 
Yes, said Richard Brilla, director of the new facility, "but the donuts are a lot more costly here." Each wafer, holding hundreds of chips, is worth $6,000 to $10,000 apiece, depending on what insulation, circuitry and materials are used. 
-- Since he took the head coaching job at bottom-dwelling Vanderbilt, the question Bobby Johnson is asked most often is not, "Why will things be different under you?" "The most-asked question is, `Do you know you look like Steve Martin?' " Johnson said to the assembled writers at SEC Kickoff 2002. 
"Yeah, I do," said Johnson, who has a full head of gray hair in common with the comedian-turned-playwright. 
I swear. 
They jumped out and said, `Hollywood, Hollywood.' I got my picture taken with them and signed a few Steve Martin autographs." Johnson will be signing plenty of autographs with his own name if he reaches his goal this year. 
Did he consider trying to cancel? 
T-shirts hanging on the wall are inscribed with the scores of each of the Tigers' five defeats. 
"But I think we've moved past last season. 
"Outside of that, he looks like a clone to me." Now that Eli has put on about 15 pounds and weighs about 220, his size is closer to Peyton's. 
He was the runner-up last year as a sophomore. 
"It gets away from football. 
Of all the 12th games added to the schedule, Florida's might be the most daunting: Miami on Sept. 
"What do you want me to say?" first-year Florida coach Ron Zook said with a note of exasperation. 
"If you look down the road too far, you get your feet cut out from under you." Karen Rosen writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. 
The Chinese and Indian varieties differ little in taste. 
Hmong farmers grow them in California's Central Valley, and Mexico has a substantial crop. 
When young, the flavor is relatively mild, with a fresh, sour note. 
PRICE Bitter melon was selling for 79 cents to $1.99 a pound last week. 
Chinese hot-and-sour soup made with egg white and crabmeat often includes bitter melon. 
Black bean sauce is a favorite seasoning. 
In Vietnam, bitter melon halves are stuffed with meat mixtures, such as ground pork with black mushrooms and cellophane noodles, then braised. 
2002 The San Francisco Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO -- How does it feel to turn 90 and have attained the status of an icon, a living legend? 
The show, along with her seminal book, "Mastering the Art of French Cooking" (1961), revolutionized the way America cooks and eats. 
First, there will be all the public observances, including a sold-out dinner Thursday at San Francisco's tony Fifth Floor restaurant, which -- like dinners that night at 19 other venues across the country -- will benefit the scholarship fund of the International Association of Culinary Professionals (which Child co-founded). 
Aug. 
The schedule Child and her assistant of 14 years, former pastry chef Stephanie Hersh, have laid out is not exactly a senior-citizen routine, even though Child has always been candid about her age and realistic in assessing her own capabilities. 
She is in the most active of the four levels available, but should the need arise, she can move on to assisted living facilities within the same complex. 
She thinks it's selfish for people not to make arrangements for their old age in good time." But so far, age has been kind to the ebullient Child. 
Though she had a "nice" kitchen installed in her new home, Child said it's like a ship's galley -- a far cry from the huge, three-pantry kitchen Paul Child designed for their house in Cambridge. 
"Back there, we always ate in the kitchen," Child reminisced, "I cannot do that here." That means her entertaining has been curtailed, even though she still has an active social life with the many friends the Childs made during 22 winters spent in Santa Barbara. 
One of its Peg-Board walls was dismantled and reinstalled at COPIA; the rest went to Washington, D.C., and the Behring Center of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History. 
As reinstalled in Washington, the kitchen should be as we all remember it from countless TV shows, "right down to the toothpicks." Child will go to the capital for the debut of the exhibit right after the Maine birthday bash. 
But Child is not one to get maudlin about the past, though she does want to keep it alive. 
For information on COPIA events open to the public, sign on to www.copia.org or call (707) 259-1600. 
"It seems she loves soups," said Siegel, "so I am picking up on her vichyssoise. 
In the same vein, Gras is tweaking her salade nicoise, and Jeanminette is adapting her mousse au chocolat to become a spectacular six-layer pecan marjolaine. 
When Child was asked some years back what she would order for her last meal, she ended the list with "something chocolate for dessert." Here is the San Francisco chefs' menu: Corn vichyssoise with caviar Julia's composed near-nicoise salad Atlantic halibut with flavored butters Sonoma duck breast a la Julia Child with crispy pancetta and sweet summer onions and naturally enriched duck sauce Six-layer pecan marjolaine with Julia's coffee chocolate mousse, cocoa meringue, pecan crust and citrus sorbet list> Words of wisdom Julia Child doesn't have much use for fads and trends -- never has. 
Why we love Julia BY KIM SEVERSON c. 
But what about Bay Area notables who like to cook but are not connected to a professional kitchen? 
It's live and she leans over and picks it up and says, `What the guests don't see won't hurt them.' You have to be playful and confident about cooking. 
NYT20020731.0049 2002-07-31 11:11 Q2420 &Cx1f; tab-z r f BC-CHEFS-SAVINGFISH-NNS 07-31 1259 BC-CHEFS-SAVINGFISH-NNS RESPONSIBLE SEAFOOD SALES ARE THE CATCH OF THE DAY ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2002, is available as a "separate buy." For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Optional trim at 950 words By MICHELLE COLE c.2002 Newhouse News Service (UNDATED) Chefs and seafood retailers are wading into one of the hottest natural resource issues of the day: fisheries management. 
Most say they're driven by the desire to do right by the environment. 
The nationwide boycott of Chilean seabass is a potent example of the new activism. 
"I refuse to sell it." Chilean seabass, also known as Patagonian toothfish, came into vogue in the 1990s in U.S. 
With rising demand for the firm, oil-rich fish came pirate fishing fleets eager to cash in on its popularity -- even if it meant skirting catch limits and environmental regulations. 
But more than 32,000 tons may have been taken illegally from those same waters, the fisheries service said. 
A number of restaurants not officially part of the National Environmental Trust boycott also have stopped serving Chilean seabass. 
Red Lobster, with 660 restaurants in the United States and Canada, dropped Chilean seabass from the menu in the past year because of "sustainability" concerns, said Wendy Spirduso, communications director for the Orlando, Fla.-based chain. 
"We've discontinued selling swordfish, Chilean seabass, orange roughy and marlin," said Mark Cockcroft, national seafood buyer for Wild Oats Markets, a chain of 103 stores. 
All of this comes at a time when Americans are consuming more seafood: 15 to 16 pounds per person each year, compared with 10.3 pounds per person in 1960 and 12.5 pounds in 1980, according to the National Fisheries Institute, an industry association. 
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations reports that 47 percent to 50 percent of stocks are "fully exploited," meaning that catches have either reached or are close to maximum limits. 
Fisheries management is best left to the experts, said Thor Lassen, president of Ocean Trust, a research and conservation foundation partly financed by the fishing industry. 
In 2000 and 2001, the Packard Foundation awarded $26 million in marine fisheries conservation grants. 
More than $7 million was given to projects aimed at educating the general public. 
More than 600,000 of the cards and seafood guides have been distributed since 2000, said Jennifer Dianto, Seafood Watch program manager at the aquarium. 
But in a business in which 12-hour shifts are the norm, some chefs worry about their lack of time to stay informed about complicated, rapidly changing fisheries management issues. 
"For me, it's very difficult to be certain that the information which is given to me is real," said Eric Ripert, chef at Le Bernardin, a four-star seafood restaurant in Manhattan. 
"I do it as somebody who has a conscience and is caring." JL END COLE (Michelle Cole is a staff writer for The Oregonian of Portland, Ore. 
For information about becoming a client of this service, contact the New York Times Syndicate sales representatives listed at the end of the text.) BY CHRISTINE SOARES c.2002 Scientific American Intending to ease consumer access to mental health care, New Mexico legislators in March passed a law allowing psychologists to prescribe psychotropic medications, such as antidepressants. 
Davison of the University of Southern California. 
A total of 31 state psychology associations have task forces dedicated to developing and lobbying for prescription-privileges legislation. 
Critics say that is not nearly enough compared with other prescribers, such as M.D. 
Neither Davison nor most other RxP opponents doubt the efficacy of medications. 
In a field that has struggled long and hard to prove that mind, mood and behavior can be studied empirically, the past decade, Davison says, has seen "exciting developments" that demonstrate the validity of various psychotherapeutic interventions and the psychosocial-behavioral models on which they are based. 
Heiby of the University of Hawaii, who chairs a committee of the 1,000-member American Association of Applied and Preventive Psychology that is concerned about the medicalization of psychology. 
More than any philosophical betrayal of psychology, RxP opponents fear that the movement will undermine the science they love. 
Lilienfeld feels that many clinical psychologists already receive inadequate training in fundamentals such as research design and evaluation. 
The 300-member SSCP is the only group within the APA to have taken a formal stance against prescription privileges. 
"Except for this small vocal minority, we have just not gotten a lot of groundswell against this from members," says APA president Philip G. 
With prescription privileges now a reality in one state, some RxP opponents concede that it may be too late. 
Department of Defense psychopharmacology demonstration project involving two to four years' training produced 10 military psychologists who can write prescriptions. 
(Distributed by New York Times Special Features) EDITOR: Visit The New York Times Syndicate Web site at http://www.nytimes.com/syndicate for more information on SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE and other features. 
-- INTERNATIONAL: Claire Saint-Andre, in Paris, 33-1-53-05-76-55 or saint-andre (at) fr.inter.net. 
NYT20020731.0191 2002-07-31 18:45 A4537 &Cx1f; tad-z u a BC-ATOMIC-BOMB-0801-COX 07-31 1808 BC-ATOMIC-BOMB-0801-COX A mission to end a war By DENISE GAMINO Cox News Service AUSTIN, Texas -- Tom Karnes was dialing for destiny, but not everyone wanted to cooperate. 
He was tracking down men to join a group so secret he couldn't admit it existed. 
He was calling bases all over the United States to line up their transfer to the desert outside Salt Lake City. 
"Who says this?" another commanding officer asked Karnes. 
"This is a Silverplate request," he said. 
Almost 1,800 men were assembled n late 1944 to join the top-secret unit called the 509th Composite Group. 
Paul Tibbets, the pilot who would drop the world's first atomic bomb over Hiroshima, Japan, was commander of the unit and chose the men. 
Tibbets picked the names, and Karnes made it happen. 
The story of the 509th is a tale of an elite outfit that lived in a bubble of secrecy and endured the taunts of other war-weary U.S. 
Tinian Island was the staging area where the 509th moved after its creation in the desert. 
He never even told his story to students in his 40 years of teaching college. 
He earned a doctorate in history from Stanford University and taught Latin American history at Tulane University and Arizona State University. 
6, "I always think of Paul Tibbets and how he handled unbelievable responsibility," Karnes said. 
Tibbets had just been ordered to organize a combat force to drop a bomb being developed by a secret enterprise known as the Manhattan Project. 
Tibbets instantly liked the isolation and vast size of Wendover and the surrounding Bonneville Salt Flats. 
In Karnes, Tibbets found a kindred spirit -- and a handball partner. 
Each had skills the other admired. 
"I don't recall ever having to tell Tom to do anything," Tibbets said in an e-mail this week. 
I was very lucky to have Tom." Tibbets quickly returned to Wendover after that first visit to set up his headquarters. 
Almost overnight, Wendover became a high-security base filled with off-limit areas covered in barbed wire. 
Karnes and his staff read outgoing mail to make sure no secrets slipped out. 
Phone calls were monitored. 
Karnes knew the 509th was preparing for a special bombing mission, but he had no idea what kind of bombs were involved. 
He said that they had split the atom and that we were going to drop an atomic bomb," Karnes said. 
The 509th took North Field and stayed in relative isolation from other B-29 units on the island. 
Karnes had his own Jeep, and went to the beach and to evening movies shown by other units as often as he could. 
Not until the day before Tibbets and his crew flew to Hiroshima was the 509th told what was happening. 
This is the big mission." Karnes and hundreds of other men from the 509th stood along the flight line as Tibbets and the Enola Gay took off at 2:45 a.m. 
As they approached, Tibbets braced for Japanese anti-aircraft fire. 
Early in the flight, the crew had inserted a plug of uranium into the 9,000-pound bomb, nicknamed "Little Boy." Ninety seconds from the bomb drop, Tibbets put the plane on auto-pilot. 
At 8:15 a.m. 
Tibbets and his crew had exactly 43 seconds to get away before the bomb exploded. 
He pushed off the dark glasses because he couldn't see to fly. 
More shocking was the city of Hiroshima, which was on fire and bubbling like tar. 
But he didn't sleep long. 
Carl Spaatz, commander of the Strategic Air Forces, stepped forward to pin the medal on his bomb flight coveralls. 
He knew the war would soon be over and he would be heading home. 
Three days later, another B-29 from the 509th bombed Nagasaki. 
Today, Karnes is frustrated that some of his fellow historians, the ones he calls "revisionists," question the wisdom and morality of the bombings. 
"We were not bloodthirsty guys," he said. 
And what the casualties would have been, who knows -- but heavy." "On Tinian, and probably elsewhere, the Seabees were building enormous hospitals while we were there," he said. 
They were for (an expected invasion of Japan). 
In his heart, he holds the unshakable conviction that the mission he helped organize saved America from disaster. 
Pacific First Financial Corp. 
of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million. 
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. 
The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. 
Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations. 
Timex had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches, covered by 58 different U.S. 
The White House said Mr. 
and the Virgin Islands." Timex is a major U.S. 
tariff preferences. 
trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president's action. 
watch imports that year, according to an aide to U.S. 
Magna International Inc. 
Stephen Akerfeldt, currently vice president finance, will succeed Mr. 
An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn. 
Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars (US$13.73). 
Mr. 
Analysts said Mr. 
They expect him to cut costs throughout the organization. 
Stronach will personally direct the restructuring, assisted by Manfred Gingl, president and chief executive. 
McAlpine could be reached for comment. 
McAlpine resigned to pursue a consulting career, with Magna as one of his clients. 
A., through its Montedison Acquisition N.V. 
cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share. 
2 to stock of record Dec. 
The company also adopted an anti-takeover plan. 
Each right entitles the shareholder to buy $100 face amount of 13.5% bonds due 1993 and warrants to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share. 
21, can be exercised for $100 each. 
has agreed to exercise any rights that aren't exercised by other shareholders. 
ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS Inc. 
Perpetual preferred shares aren't retractable by the holders, the company said. 
FALL BALLOT ISSUES set a record for off-year elections. 
But the 1989 fall total of 80, while well below 1988 activity, shows "a steady ratcheting up in citizen referenda and initiatives," says Patrick McGuigan, editor of Family, Law and Democracy Report. 
Ballot questions range from a Maine initiative on banning Cruise missiles to a referendum on increasing the North Dakota income tax. 
In California, two petition drives for next year's election are "essentially finished," says David Schmidt, author of "Citizen Lawmakers." Mr. 
PHOTOGRAPH COLLECTING gains new stature as prices rise. 
At Christie's, a folio of 21 prints from Alfred Stieglitz's "Equivalents" series sold for $396,000, a single-lot record. 
In part, prices reflect development of a market structure based on such variables as the number of prints. 
"There is finally some sort of sense in the market," she says. 
"When I see prints going into the hands of institutions, I know they aren't going to come back on the market." Most in demand: classic photographs by masters such as Stieglitz and Man Ray. 
DIALING 900 brings callers a growing number of services. 
"I'm starting to see more business transactions," says Andrea West of American Telephone & Telegraph Co., noting growing interest in use of 900 service for stock sales, software tutorials and even service contracts. 
West says. 
TIRED OF TRIMMING? 
MEDICINE TRANSPLANT: Growth of Japanese trade and travel prompts Beth Israel Medical Center, New York, to set up a bilingual medical practice. 
DIAPER SERVICES make a comeback amid growing environmental concerns. 
Tiny Tots Inc., Campbell, Calif., says business is up 35% in the past year. 
In Syracuse, N.Y., DyDee Service's new marketing push stresses environmental awareness. 
The National Association of Diaper Services, Philadelphia, says that since January it has gotten more than 672 inquiries from people interested in starting diaper services. 
Diaper shortages this summer limited growth at Stork Diaper Services, Springfield, Mass., where business is up 25% in Also spurring the move to cloth: diaper covers with Velcro fasteners that eliminate the need for safety pins. 
. 
. 
William C. 
and its principal operating unit, Fidelity Federal Bank. 
13. 
Taylor, who stepped down as chairman, president and chief executive in March for health reasons. 
Kane succeeded Mr. 
Separately, Citadel posted a third-quarter net loss of $2.3 million, or 68 cents a share, versus net income of $5.3 million, or $1.61 a share, a year earlier. 
Those included costs associated with the potential Valley Federal Savings and Loan Association acquisition, which was terminated on Sept. 
In addition, operating results were hit by an increase in loan and real estate loss reserves. 
Reed International PLC said that net income for the six months ended Oct. 
And while there was no profit this year from discontinued operations, last year they contributed #34 million, before tax. 
Reed is paying an interim dividend of 4.6 pence, up 15% from 4 pence a year earlier. 
Earnings were hurt by disposal of operations in its restructuring, Reed said. 
DSM said net income in the third quarter jumped 63% as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program. 
The 32% state-owned DSM had eight million guilders of extraordinary charges in the latest quarter, mainly to reflect one-time losses in connection with the disposal of some operations. 
Last year, DSM had 71 million guilders of extraordinary charges for the restructuring program and other transactions. 
Also, substantially lower Dutch corporate tax rates helped the company keep its tax outlay flat relative to earnings growth, the company added. 
The Rockford, Ill., maker of fasteners also said it expects to post sales in the current fiscal year that are "slightly above" fiscal 1989 sales of $155 million. 
In fiscal 1989, Elco earned $7.8 million, or $1.65 a share. 
Oshkosh Truck Corp., Oshkosh, Wis., estimated earnings for its fourth quarter ended Sept. 
The truck maker said the significant drop in net income will result in lower earnings for the fiscal year. 
Oshkosh Truck attributed the downturn in its earnings to higher start-up costs of its new chassis division, a softer motor-home market and higher administrative costs of compliance with government contractor regulations. 
In anticipation of the start-up of its new factory, the company said a larger-than-normal chassis supply has been built to carry it through the transition period. 
But revenue declined to $3 billion from $3.2 billion. 
The insurer's earnings from commercial property/casualty lines fell 59% in the latest quarter, while it lost $7.2 million in its personal property/casualty business, compared with earnings of $6.1 million a year ago. 
In the first nine months, net was $306 million, compared with a loss of $195 million in the 1988 period. 
A.L. 
was merged into Primerica Corp., New York, after a special meeting of Williams shareholders cleared the transaction, the companies said. 
The financial-services company will pay 0.82 share for each Williams share. 
Primerica closed at $28.25, down 50 cents. 
Its subsidiaries' services are marketed by closely held A.L. 
Primerica, as expected, also acquired certain assets of the agency and assumed certain of its liabilities. 
Intelogic Trace Inc., San Antonio, Texas, said it bought 2.7 million shares, or about 18%, of its common stock from an unaffiliated shareholder for $3.625 a share, or $9.9 million. 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Intelogic shares rose 37.5 cents to close at $2.75. 
Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves, saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when "the company is on a roll." He added, "This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman and it is not designed, particularly, to take the company private." But Mr. 
Edelman is running scared. 
said it extended its $18-a-share offer for Telerate Inc. 
The offer, valued at about $576 million for the 33% of Telerate that Dow Jones doesn't already own, had been set to expire Nov. 
Dow Jones, which owns about 64 million of Telerate's 95 million common shares outstanding, said that about 24,000 shares have been tendered under its offer. 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Telerate shares closed at $19.50, up 12.5 cents. 
said that Equus Investment II Limited Partnership has proposed changing the offer for the company to $13.65 in cash and stock from an all-cash transaction. 
Previously, it offered $13.65 a share in cash, or $29 million. 
However, Tony Lama said it would promptly submit the offer to a special committee of the company's board. 
Reupke, 52 years old and a 27-year Reuters veteran, had been the information-services company's general manager for only six months. 
No successor was named, and Mr. 
In a telephone interview, Mr. 
Mr. 
I would be very surprised if his departure signals any change in strategy or change in profit expectations." On London's Stock Exchange, Reuters shares rose five pence to 913 pence ($14.43). 
And Patrick Mannix, 46, international technical manager, becomes director of group quality programs. 
's Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd., extended to Nov. 
shares outstanding. 
DD Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans, which it claims were put in place to deter bidders. 
The partners said they already hold 15% of all shares outstanding. 
10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids. 
Dunkin' is based in Randolph, Mass. 
Savin Corp. 
The Oklahoma City energy and defense concern said it will record a $7.5 million reserve for its defense group, including a $4.7 million charge related to problems under a fixed-price development contract and $2.8 million in overhead costs that won't be reimbursed. 
Heritage, which owns 51% of POP's 3.6 million shares outstanding, said it will exchange one share of a new preferred stock for each POP common share it doesn't already own. 
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, POP plunged $4 to $14.75. 
New York-based POP Radio provides, through a national, in-store network, a customized music, information and advertising service which simulates live radio. 
RMS International Inc., Hasbrouk Heights, N.J., facing a cash-flow squeeze, said it is seeking other financing sources and waivers from debenture holders. 
RMS distributes electronic devices and produces power supplies and plastic literature displays. 
Sales rose to $3 million from $2.9 million. 
Sales rose to $9.8 million from $8.9 million. 
said it sold 750,000 shares of its common stock to the McAlpine family interests, for $1 million, or $1.35 a share. 
The McAlpine family, which operates a number of multinational companies, including a London-based engineering and construction company, also lent to Meridian National $500,000. 
The loan may be extended by the McAlpine group for an additional year with an increase in the conversion price to $2.50 a share. 
Ratners Group PLC, a fast-growing, acquisition-minded London-based jeweler, raised its price for Seattle-based specialty jeweler Weisfield's Inc. 
The other concern wasn't identified. 
The sweetened offer has acceptances from more than 50% of Weisfield's shareholders, and it is scheduled for completion by Dec. 
The acquisition of 87-store Weisfield's raises Ratners's U.S. 
About 30% of Ratners's profit already is derived from the U.S. 
The Van Nuys, Calif., thrift had net income of $132,000, or three cents a share, a year ago. 
The company said the one-time provision would substantially eliminate all future losses at the unit. 
The thrift said that "after these charges and assuming no dramatic fluctuation in interest rates, the association expects to achieve near record earnings in 1990." Valley Federal is currently being examined by regulators. 
The thrift has assets of $3.2 billion. 
said it completed its acquisition of Midwest Financial Group Inc. 
The Midwest Financial subsidiary banks will continue to operate under their current names until early 1990, when each will adopt the First of America name. 
First of America said some of the managers will take other jobs with First of America. 
In addition, they will receive stock in the reorganized company, which will be named Ranger Industries Inc. 
But as the craze died, Coleco failed to come up with another winner and filed for bankruptcy-law protection in July 1988. 
Sony Columbia Acquisition Corp., formed for the Columbia deal, will formally take ownership of the movie studio later this month, a spokesman said. 
Still unresolved is Sony's effort to hire producers Jon Peters and Peter Guber to run the studio. 
for $200 million is scheduled to close Monday. 
in an attempt to get out of an exclusive production contract with Warner. 
Xerox Corp. 
A spokeswoman for Crum & Forster said employees were told early this week that numerous staff functions for the personal insurance lines were going to be centralized as a cost-cutting move. 
Property/casualty insurance has been a tough business in recent quarters, as pricing has been cutthroat and natural disasters such as Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake have resulted in huge payments. 
said it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge. 
But the pharmaceutical company said it "anticipates the long-term savings resulting from the plan's implementation will more than offset short-term costs." The program, available to Upjohn employees 55 years old or older, could increase an individual's retirement benefits 10% to 20%. 
Chairman Theodore Cooper called the program part of the company's two-year strategy to implement budget constraints and "an effective headcount-control program." But some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have, because few jobs will end up being eliminated. 
Gelles of Wertheim Schroder & Co. 
Upjohn further estimated that about 50% of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced. 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Upjohn shares rose 87.5 cents to $38.875 apiece. 
The company earlier this year adopted a shareholder-rights plan to ward off unwanted suitors. 
Earlier staff-reduction moves have trimmed about 300 jobs, the spokesman said. 
The new company will attempt to limit the shipyard's losses, participants said. 
Subcontractors will be offered a settlement and a swift transition to new management is expected to avert an exodus of skilled workers from Waertsilae Marine's two big shipyards, government officials said. 
Oy Waertsilae is to contribute 200 million markkaa, most of it as subordinated debt, and take a minority stake in the new company. 
Waertsilae Marine's biggest creditor is Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. 
Waertsilae Marine's bankruptcy proceedings began Tuesday in a Helsinki court. 
reported a 47% decline in fourth-quarter earnings, reflecting restructuring costs as well as a more difficult pet food market. 
Louis company earned $45.2 million, or 65 cents a share, compared with $84.9 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier. 
For the year ended Sept. 
This year's results included a gain of $70.2 million on the disposal of seafood operations. 
Ralston attributed its fourth-quarter slump partly to higher costs of ingredients in the pet food business as well as competitive pressures, which required higher advertising spending. 
Its cereal division realized higher operating profit on volume increases, but also spent more on promotion. 
Electronic theft by foreign and industrial spies and disgruntled employees is costing U.S. 
That was the message delivered by government and private security experts at an all-day conference on corporate electronic espionage. 
companies and share it with their own companies," said Noel D. 
It "may well be" that theft of business data is "as serious a strategic threat to national security" as it is a threat to the survival of victimized U.S. 
The conference was jointly sponsored by the New York Institute of Technology School of Management and the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association, a joint industry-government trade group. 
Even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR recorder. 
"You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets at the same time," Mr. 
By contrast, European firms will spend $150 million this year on electronic security, and are expected to spend $1 billion by 1992. 
Still, encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy. 
Moreover, he said, technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets after they've been "erased" from a computer's memory. 
No personal computer, not even the one on a chief executive's desk, is safe, this speaker noted. 
Mark Goode, president of Micronyx Inc., a Richardson, Texas, firm that makes computer-security products, provided a new definition for Mikhail Gorbachev's campaign for greater openness, known commonly as glasnost. 
Gorbachev, Mr. 
He cited the case of a Swiss oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick up a cargo of crude in the Middle East. 
The Soviets' eavesdropping paid off, however, because they got the contract. 
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country. 
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper. 
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home. 
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage. 
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking. 
The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions. 
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination." The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before. 
It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent. 
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed. 
attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel. 
The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing. 
Barco has refused U.S. 
military aid. 
Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem. 
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance. 
A Physics of Semantics? 
Each is tentative and incomplete, pointing but not fully adequate. 
the darkness? 
There are grounds, reasoned about by the best of philosophers and scientists of the past several centuries, to doubt a physics of semantics. 
Yet when the first hard frost comes, when the birches have been swung, their crimson leaves scattered carelessly, when crystals splint shallow ponds and old egrets stand dark watch the coming dawn, long-legged, knowing how winter is thin, when the first phase transition of water to ice forms slight solidity across meadow streams, small creatures of flesh and concept tiptoe gingerly to some far side where, perhaps, something new is to be found. 
The egret is as much a part of physical reality as the atom, and perhaps more than the vaunted quark. 
If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a usefulor more, a properdefinition of life itself, then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where "purpose" is ascribed by all of us to one another. 
For this to be true, it is not necessary that the carriers of purpose, say, the same bacterium heading upstream in the glucose gradient, be conscious. 
Know-how Bring ourselves empathetically and objectively back three billion years to the mixed microbial community flourishing right about where most of us are now, plus or minus a modicum of layers of surface crustal material. 
Indeed, as I have emphasized before, a biosphere is a self-consistent coconstruction of autonomous agents, ways of making a living, and the search procedures, mutation, recombination, as well as behavioral search open to autonomous agents. 
There is in this whole self-constructing system a wider know-how, beyond the know-how of any single autonomous agent spinning eagerly in its microenvironment. 
There is no autonomous agent, no one, who knows how the whole system works, any more than anyone at present knows how the global economic system works in its myriad interactions, deals, steals, hopes, and frustrations. 
Philosophers distinguish between "know-how" and "know that." I know how to tie my shoes and am learning how to play jazz drums. 
I know that the moon isthey tell menot made of green cheese. 
"Know that" brings with it the standard and nonstandard issues of the truth or falseness of propositions as they report states of the world. 
Unlike "know that," "know-how" does not involve propositions about the world. 
The cheetah streaking after the wildebeest, the athletic genius high jumping, have the know-how to do it. 
I certainly want to say yes, without attributing consciousness in any way. 
It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business. 
Thank God for know-how. 
But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how. 
The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents. 
The know-how is the propagating organization. 
It is simple at its roots, you see. 
S. 
Like it or not, the glucose gradient is a sign, a predictor, of "more glucose that way." Granted, the glucose is not an arbitrary symbol, any more than a cloud is an arbitrary symbol of rain. 
By contrast, the relation between the word "chair" and that which it signifies, and on which I am now sitting, is arbitrary. 
If so, can "mere chemicals" be signs in the full Piercean sense? 
The detailed causal machinery involves transfer RNA molecules with their anticodon site and the distant site to which amino acids are attached, the aminoacyle transferase enzymes that charge the amino acid binding site of each transfer RNA with the proper amino acid among the twenty amino acids, the binding of the charged transfer RNA's anticodon site to the proper RNA code word triplet, the ribosome that glides between adjacent charged transfer RNA molecules and links the successive amino acids into the growing polypeptide chain that hangs free in the cytoplasm, tethered by the ribosome to the messenger RNA molecule as it is "translated." The arbitrariness of the genetic code is exemplified by the evolution of novel transfer RNA molecules, which translate a given messenger RNA code word triplet into a dierent amino acid. 
Monod properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis. 
Because of this, which amino acid is charged onto a particular transfer RNA is utterly arbitrary and controlled by the aminoacyle transferase enzyme that does the charging, plus the structure of the amino acid binding site on the transfer RNA. 
In short, chemistry allows arbitrary organizations of control relations. 
It seems legitimate to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that "warns" other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites. 
Nowhere in the core of Shannon's work concerning the encoding and transmission of information does the meaning, or semantics, of the information enter. 
There is, however, just a hint of semantics in Shannon's view that the semantics resides in the "decoder." I cannot buy Shannon's view unless the decoder is an autonomous agent. 
The patterns of bowl drainage upon receipt of the binary string messages sent along the communication channel constitutes the decoding. 
If only the bacterium could tell us: "Did you see that truck of a paramecium coming at me? 
I ducked under a boulder, and he never sensed me. 
Pass me some more glucose please, Martha." I will return in the next chapter to discuss such stories, for I will say that we cannot prestate the configuration space of a biosphere and, therefore, cannot deduce that which will unfold. 
Do not be overly quick to accuse me of anthropomorphizing. 
But patience. 
The semantics of the nail is some subset of this embroidered context-dependent set of implications of the event, or signal, in question to the autonomous agents in the coevolving system. 
Of course, there is a sense in which my attribution of semantics to autonomous agents is purely tautological. 
Now, five chapters later, it is hardly an independent deduction that autonomous agents are the proposed organization of matter, energy, and organization to which purposes can be ascribed in the sense of being able to act on their own behalf. 
On the other hand, while the definition is circular, like F = MA and Darwin's "natural selection" and "fitness," that does not mean that the set of codefined concepts surrounding my definition of an autonomous agent as a reproducing system that does a work cycle fails to touch the real world. 
All living cells are. 
Watch a pair of nesting birds build their nest. 
I find his hierarchy congenial and informative. 
I do not disagree, although I have placed far greater emphasis on the roles of self-organization in evolution. 
I wonder, in short, at the naturalness and self-generaticity of Dennett's cranes building cranes building cranes in biospheres, perhaps planetary geologies, and beyond. 
Dennett distinguishes "Darwinian creatures," "Pavlovian creatures," "Popperian creatures," and "Gregorian creatures." A simple autonomous agent, say, a bacterium, is a Darwinian creature. 
For the moment, no behavioral learning is to be considered. 
At the next level up, say, aplysia, a nervous system is present, and the creature is capable of stimulus-response learning,  la Pavlov. 
Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our toolsliterally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine toolsto enlarge our shared world of facts and processes. 
Cultural evolution, at some point, begins to burst out-of-bounds. 
Who knows what new cultural forms will blossom? 
I very much like Dennett's ladder of know-how, and eventual know that. 
This is not yet the association of a more or less arbitrary conditioned stimulus with an unconditioned stimulus, but I can imagine chemistry to accomplish the latter. 
Such a system might blindly try out variant patterns of synthesis until it could establish a self-sustaining web linking the carbohydrates, the enzymes, and certain protein receptors mediating the linkage between unconditioned and conditioned stimulus, then maintain that linkage by positive feedback loops. 
In such networks, for which there is modestly good evidence, a given first antibody serves as an antigen that stimulates the body to produce a second antibody that binds to the unique amino acid sequences, called the "idiotype" of the first antibody. 
But this series is likely to form feedback loops because the first and third antibody can often both bind to the same site on the second antibody, hence, the first and third antibodies are similar shapes in shape space. 
Popperian creatures? 
There are arbitrary structural relations between the metabolite and the insect, just as symbols in human language are often arbitrary with respect to the signified. 
I do get stuck at Gregorian creatures. 
If the conversation we recent two-legged ones are having with respect to our digging sticks and atomic bombs is impressive, so too is the chemical conversation in any full-fledged ecosystem, where we are all instrumental in the lives of one another. 
We humans are just more gregarious with our vocal cords and e-mail, I guess. 
Four billion years of yammering. 
Ethics And what of ethics? 
Hume told us long ago about the "naturalistic fallacy": One cannot deduce "ought" from "is." From the fact that mothers care for their young, we cannot deduce that they ought to do so, Hume argued. 
You citizens across the globe can argue the ethics. 
Hume's injunction against deduction from is to ought nevertheless began by recognizing the legitimacy of the category "ought." The eorts following Hume to understand the meaning of ethical assertions have been long, twisted, arduous. 
E. 
"It is wrong to kill." Becomes, "Agggah!" Does the positivist argument seem persuasive? 
One is reminded of something about hoisting and petards. 
Thus "equality before the law" is one contract that Rawls commends to us. 
Where is the place of value in a world of fact? 
Facts are know-that statements. 
Too much yuck, this one and its progeny are gone from the future of the biosphere. 
coli , or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around. 
If so, another cornerstone of ethical activity has been laid. 
But what are "acts" in the first place? 
Now entering Harvard, Dan spent a summer with me at the Santa Fe Institute before he learned to drive, after an earlier summer spent in the laboratory of Jack Szostak at Harvard, where, at age fourteen, Dan was learning to evolve RNA molecules to bind arbitrary ligands. 
Note we say the E. 
But all sorts of molecular vibrational, rotational, and translational motions are occurring. 
I do not think we were successful in drawing a clean distinction between doings and happenings with clear mathematics. 
Strange and interesting, is it not, that these issues all seem to arise with autonomous agents but not otherwise? 
I do not think those rudiments suce to jump over Hume's naturalistic fallacy. 
The word zoot was known within the urban jazz culture of Harlem, and it meant something either exaggerated in performance or in style. 
In the novel Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison, he describes the zoot--suiters style, walking slowly, their shoulders swaying, their legs swinging from their hips in trousers that ballooned upward from cuffs fitting snug about their ankles; their coats long and hip-tight with shoulders far too broad to be those of natural western men (1947, 380). 
Tyler makes the point that the zoot suit was an extremely symbolic costume, which gave the wearer the look of a child in adult clothing. 
The long baggy pants were made for dancing, especially the jitterbug, and the wide Panama hats were another sign of adulthood. 
It was an escape from drudgery and futile labor to the bliss of free-wheeling movement in the city among youths in the new youth culture (Tyler, 23). 
Ellington performed at the Orpheum in Los Angeles in 1941 and 1942 with a musical called Jump for Joy in which the performers wore zoot suits, also known as Gone with the Wind suits, after the style worn by Clark Gable in the movie by the same name. 
Pachucos were mostly second-generation Mexicans, the sons of migrant laborers and working-class immigrants. 
The zoot suit became a symbolic disguise that identified the zoot-suiter as neither a Mexican nor an American. 
The overly confident, slow swagger of the pachuco, today exemplified by the cholo, made it appear in fact as if the zoot-suiter were walking on air. 
It is unclear if this was a race riot or a riot of patriotic sailors who attacked, beat, and stripped young Mexican Americans whom they perceived to be unpatriotic zoot-suiters. 
Much has been written about these riots from both literary and historical perspectives. 
In 1981 a film by the same name, Zoot Suit, was produced and directed by Luis Valdez, with performances by actors Daniel Valdez and Edward James Olmos. 
In 1969 Shuster turned over the responsibility and copyright of Zozobra to the Kiwanis Club of Santa Fe. 
The death of gloom is supposed to resurrect happiness. 
Deformation and river response Before specific examples of syntectonic impacts on alluvial rivers can be discussed, a brief review of types of tectonic activity, types of rivers, and river response will be presented. 
Types of deformation The surficial movements in an alluvial valley can take different forms, as illustrated in Figure 2.1. 
Faults may be lateral faults that displace or offset the channel (Figure 2.1A) without vertical displacement. 
Faults with vertical displacement may have the uplifted block upstream of the fault with the result that gradient is steepened (Figure 2.1B). 
This has the same effect as domes and anticlines or basins and synclines (Figure 2.1H, I). 
When the displacement produces a channel segment steeper than the original stream gradient (Figure 2.1B), erosion will be initiated in this reach. 
Even small displacements may be sufficient to induce aggradation or degradation of large streams. 
Wallace (1968) mentioned that even a few inches of vertical upthrow along the downstream side of a fault can produce a dam across a small stream, which can divert its course. 
Plan view on left; cross-section on right (from Ouchi, 1983) small arrows indicate direction of flow. 
There will be aggradation upstream from the horst, and degradation, which will migrate upstream, on the downstream part of the horst. 
Upstream of the graben, there will be degradation and aggradation in the graben itself. 
The type of folding (Figure 2.1) will affect a river similar to the various types of faulting, but changes will probably be less abrupt. 
Lateral tilting will cause channel shift downdip (Figure 2.1J) or avulsion. 
For example, small stream channels have been offset by strike-slip movement (Figures 1.8, 2.1A) of the San Andreas fault. 
The main reason why channel offset caused by the San Andreas fault is clear is the extremely high rate of displacement along the fault (20.3 mm/year, Brown and Wallace, 1968) and the relatively small size of streams crossing and flowing along the fault. 
Types of alluvial rivers It is apparent that different types of alluvial channels will respond differently to deformation; therefore, their characteristics must be reviewed before their response can be evaluated. 
Five basic channel patterns exist (Figure 2.2): (1) straight channels with either migrating sand waves; or (2) with migrating alternate bars forming a sinuous thalweg; (3) two types of meandering channels, a highly sinuous channel of equal width (pattern 3a) and channels that are wider at bends than in crossings (pattern 3b); (4) the meanderingbraided transition; and (5) a typical braided stream. 
It has been possible to develop these patterns experimentally by varying the gradient, sediment load, stream power, and the type of sediment load transported by the channel (Schumm and Kahn, 1972). 
The mixed-load channel lies between these two (Figure 2.2). 
In addition, in the braided-stream category, there are bar-braided and island-braided channels (islands are vegetated bars). 
The pattern changes take place at critical values of stream power, gradient, and sediment load (Schumm and Kahn, 1972). 
Sediment load, stream power, velocity increase with flume slope and a similar relation can be developed with these variables (from Schumm and Khan, 1972). 
158). 
Patterns 15 are bed-load channel patterns, patterns 610 are mixed-load channel patterns, and patterns 1113 are suspended-load channel patterns. 
The three major river types are controlled by type of sediment load, but within each type, the different patterns reflect increased valley slope, sediment load, and stream power. 
Pattern 2, alternate-bar channel with migrating side or alternate bars and a slightly sinuous thalweg; Pattern 3, low-sinuosity meandering channel with large alternate bars that develop chutes; Pattern 4, transitional meandering-thalweg braided channel. 
Pattern 5 is a typical bar-braided channel. 
The higher degree of bank stability permits the maintenance of narrow, deep, straight channels (Pattern 6), and alternate bars stabilize because of the finer sediments to form slightly sinuous channels (Pattern 7). 
Pattern 9 maintains the sinuosity of a meandering channel, but with a greater sediment transport the presence of bars gives it a composite sinuous-braided appearance. 
Suspended load Pattern 11 is a straight, narrow, deep channel. 
This is the anastomosing pattern of branching and rejoining channel segments (Schumm et al., 1996). 
Anastomosing or anabranching channels differ from braided channels because they are composed of multiple channels that are separated by a floodplain (Figure 2.5), whereas braided channels have multiple thalwegs in a single channel. 
(1993) suggest that this pattern is transitioned to a single channel because anastomosing rivers appear to be associated with partly blocked valleys (Smith and Smith, 1980) and tectonic uplift (Gregory and Schumm, 1987). 
Evidence of deformation The first geomorphic clues of active tectonics may be tectonic landforms that result from long-continued deformation such as modified drainage networks and deformed sets of terraces. 
For example, experimental studies demonstrated that parallel drainage patterns form on slopes greater than about 2.5 percent, whereas dendritic patterns form on gentler slopes (Phillips and Schumm, 1987). 
Numbers indicate relative ages of channels and reaches of channels from youngest (1) to oldest (4) (from Schumm et al., 1996). 
A topographic high caused by active uplift, will cause a deflection of portions of the drainage pattern. 
This can cause portions of the drainage pattern to develop in a direction opposite to that of the drainage network. 
As the major streams are deflected away from the uplift, tributaries on one side will be lengthened and those on the other side will be shortened. 
Incision of the steepened streams permitted them to capture the streams that were aggrading as a result of reduced gradient. 
NULL Figure 2.6 Drainage pattern modified by uplift. 
Subsidence caused southward migration of eastwest flowing channels. 
Muehlberger (1979) noted this type of asymmetry in an area near Taos, New Mexico (Figure 2.7). 
Geological Survey topographic 2 maps, he described this asymmetry quantitatively. 
The index for 30 small drainage basins was 0.6 indicating a major displacement of the main channel in a down-tilt direction. 
Other indices of asymmetry are described by Keller and Pinter (1996, pp. 
NULL Figure 2.7 Map of asymmetrical stream valleys in the vicinity of Taos, New Mexico showing method of measuring distances used in calculating index of asymmetry (modified after Muehlberger, 1979). 
They occur at various scales, along primary or secondary portions of the drainage network, and generally disappear as erosion and deposition occurs through time. 
Isolated lakes are generally due to local events such as landslides or collapses, which form a dam, but clustered lakes are due to regional processes, which may be related to climate (or paleoclimate), neotectonic deformation, or frequently a combination of these processes. 
Such lakes act as drainage collectors and they can occupy various elevations. 
Continental stretching and transtensional tectonics are favorable for the formation of basins and tectonic lakes. 
The river trace and ria lakes suggest a downward movement along the same axis as that of the inferred fault. 
Most of these concepts are not new. 
Ria Lakes Dendritic ria lakes occur at the lower part of a tributary, which is blocked by aggradation along the trunk river (Holz et al., 1979). 
Some of these lakes have a knee pattern superposed on the dendritic pattern suggesting the effect of active faulting through a thick sedimentary cover (Sternberg, 1950, 1955, Figure 2.8). 
Stars show the location of the main ria lakes, with the area A represented in detail. 
Section along XY in the lower part of the figure, modified after Laurent (1985). 
Clusters of ria lakes are observed along large rivers in the western Maran Basin and in the central Ucayali Basin, Peru (Rsnen et al., 1987; Dumont, 1993). 
Similar patterns are observed on the south margin of the Beni Basin (Dumont, 1992; Dumont and Guyot, 1993). 
This cluster is superimposed over the structural axis of the basin, which trends toward the Ucamara Depression. 
NULL Figure 2.10 Relative positions of tectonic lakes in the Peruvian foreland basins. 
The Pastaza depression is filled by more than 4 500 m of Cretaceous and Cenozoic sediments, with about 500 m of Quaternary sediment (Laurent, 1985) (Figure 2.9). 
A continental rift generates tilt of the side blocks in opposite directions and the progressive tilting of the earths surface can significantly modify the gradient of rivers. 
Lake Kyoga and Lake Kwania look artificial, but they are not the result of dam construction. 
Flow in the Kafu River has been reversed, and water draining from Lake Victoria has found a new course to the north, where it flows over Murchison Falls and into Lake Albert. 
Back tilting explains the shape of Lake Kyoga and Lake Kwania (modified after Doornkamp and Temple, 1966). 
These lakes are superimposed over basement structures. 
The Puinahua (1324 km2) and Punga (341 km2) lakes are both located in the south part of the Maran Basin (Figure 2.10). 
Punga Lake is superimposed over the structure of the Santa Elena uplift (Dumont and Garcia, 1991), which is interpreted as a crystalline horst surrounded by Paleozoic sedimentary strata (Laurent, 1985). 
Both lakes are also parallel to the strike of normal faulting with a NNWSSE extension in the upland border (Dumont et al., 1988). 
More precise morphological evidence of active tectonics comes from the Punga Lake. 
Then the region began to subside. 
Only a downward motion of the area where the lake is observed can explain the phenomenon. 
An example is the isostatic deformation of the Pleistocene Lake Bonneville shorelines, Utah (Crittenden, 1963). 
In addition, deformed marine terraces provide an excellent indication of recent deformation along 440 km of the Pacific Coast of Baja, California (Orme, 1980). 
This will, of course, dramatically alter the hydraulics and hydrology of the reach. 
NULL Figure 2.12 Block diagram of the displaced river terraces at the mouth of the Waiohine Gorge, New Zealand. 
The amount (in feet) each terrace has been moved by the fault is indicated (H = amount of horizontal movement; V = amount of vertical movement). 
In addition, the variations of thickness and distribution of recent sediments indicate the variability of tectonics in a given valley. 
Alluvial rivers will be very sensitive indicators of valley slope change. 
For example, Twidale (1966) reported that both the Flinders and Leichardt Rivers have changed to a braided pattern, as a result of the steepening of their gradient by the Selwyn Upwarp in northern Queensland, Australia; and the Red River near Winnipeg, Canada is straightening, as a result of reduction of gradient by isostatic rebound (Welch, 1973). 
Louis and Cairo and the lower Missouri River (Adams, 1980) as well as the Red River of the North near Winnipeg, Canada (Vanicek and Nagy, 1980). 
For example, if sea-level is lowered, and a steep portion of the continental shelf is exposed, the effect will be like that downstream of the axis of an uplift. 
Indeed, Lanes (1955) argument that a stream will restore its gradient at a higher or lower level following a baselevel change is conceptually correct because if the river is initially at grade, then to move its sediment load and water discharge through the channel, the original gradient of the stream must be reestablished. 
It has been demonstrated that rivers can respond to major changes of water and sediment load primarily by pattern changes (Schumm, 1968), and that much of the pattern variability of large alluvial rivers such as the Mississippi, Indus, and Nile, reflect the variability of the valley slope (Schumm et al., 1994; Jorgensen et al., 1993; Schumm and Galay, 1994). 
See text for discussion. 
The line AC represents the channel profile, and the line AB represents the profile of the valley floor. 
The channel distance is one-third longer than the valley distance, and the difference in channel and valley slope reflects the sinuosity of the stream. 
In this case, incision ceases at point F in the valley and at point G in the channel because the increase of sinuosity from 1.5 to 2.0 from G to H maintains a constant channel gradient over the reach of increased valley slope (FD). 
According to Lanes assumptions, the effect of this baselevel fall would be propagated upstream to point A, where an amount of erosion equal to BD would occur. 
Rather the channel lengthens, and the effect of baselevel lowering is propagated only a relatively short distance upstream. 
The probability that a large river can adjust in this fashion is made more likely by the fact that the baselevel changes in nature will take place relatively slowly and not abruptly, unlike during the experimental studies. 
This change would have doubled the channel gradient. 
It is clear, however, that pattern change did not totally compensate for the change of baselevel. 
Wares experiments showed that a sinuosity increase, which resulted in a slope decrease, was only part of the adjustment, and width, depth, and roughness adjusted to decrease velocity and stream power. 
The River Nile provides an example of such shared adjustment with both sinuosity and width changing as valley slope changes (Schumm and Galay, 1994). 
Tectonic activity may change the slope of the valley floor and have its effect on the channel pattern (Adams, 1980). 
The Jordan River, as it approaches one of these convexities, straightens as it crosses the upstream flatter part of the fan and then it develops a more sinuous course on the steeper downstream side of the fan (Schumm, 1977, p. 
It is important to realize that channels that lie near a pattern threshold (Figure 2.3) may change their characteristics dramatically with only a slight change in the controlling variable. 
For example, with increasing slope, a straight channel will become sinuous, a low sinuosity channel will become more sinuous, and a meandering channel will braid. 
NULL Figure 2.14 Reaches of degradation and aggradation associated with uplift and faulting. 
In fact, upstream deposition will reduce downstream sediment loads thereby increasing the tendency for downstream erosion. 
For example, deposition upstream from the axis of a dome can progress further upstream by backfilling beyond the area of active deformation (Figure 2.14). 
However, it is more likely that reduced sediment load will accelerate erosion on the steeper downstream reach, and when this increased load moves downstream, aggradation will result (Figure 2.14). 
The result should be deformed or compressed meanders upstream and a change of meander character at the contact. 
Hence, a fault may present a barrier with the result that upstream meanders are compressed and deformed (Figure 2.15). 
Rivers being the most sensitive components of the landscape will provide evidence of even, slow, aseismic tectonic activity. 
change of channel pattern 4. 
conversion of floodplain to a low terrace 6. 
effects both upstream and downstream of the zone of deformation (degradation, aggradation, flooding, bank erosion) 8. 
Therefore, it may be difficult to determine the cause of channel change when, in fact, human activities have been changing both discharge and sediment load during historic time. 
In many areas, the evidence will be circumstantial. 
Lakes can also provide information on subsidence, and ria lakes can be evidence of tilting or even hydrologic and climatic influences. 
Therefore, care must be exercised when determining the tectonic significance of lakes and other river anomalies. 
Whyte Jrs (1956) organization man to walk permanently out of the front doors of the corporation, many of the assumptions of a traditional career path followed shortly behind. 
Is there anything that can be concluded about careers if everyone seems to be doing their own thing? 
The new environment suggests a shift from pre-ordained and linear development to perpetually changing career paths and possibilities. 
The concept of the boundaryless career is broadly based, and intended to reflect the emergent pace of economic change. 
6). 
So much so, that one may be tempted to think that no aggregates can be drawn from this seemingly random micro-level behaviour. 
For these people and industries the boundaryless career is simply business as usual. 
We focus in this chapter on situations where boundaryless career practices appear to be well established and fruitful, involving industries where open labour markets have thrived. 
Further examination reveals not only order, but remarkable stability. 
Moreover, the resulting social interdependence provides a new form of cohesiveness that, in turn, introduces new structure. 
It is organising, rather than organisation, that is the catch-word of the boundaryless career. 
We present a theoretical perspective through which we can understand the dynamics of boundaryless careers followed by descriptive analysis demonstrating evidence of theory in practice in two selected industries. 
We then examine the industry cases. 
His conception of enactment, directly related to his previous (1995) work on sensemaking, explains the dynamics of the characteristic interdependence that operates in boundaryless careers. 
That is, people create situations and understandings out of their own dispositions and backgrounds. 
People enact laws, which become part of the legal system which in turn influences further behaviour, leading people to enact new laws, and so on. 
Similarly, career systems evolve from the enactment of individual careers. 
133). 
If enactment is saying then it is, in essence, the action of individuals in their environment that starts the process. 
For example, if you believe a certain group of individuals to be hostile, when you interact with them your behaviour may reflect your fear. 
The environment becomes hostile. 
The result is a circular self-reinforcing relationship resembling a self-fulfilling prophecy. 
How do we relate this process to boundaryless careers? 
In traditional bounded organisations and careers the proliferation of structure, hierarchy, plans, detailed job descriptions, prescribed relationships, and established road maps provide an armoury of articulated rules and social cues to guide behaviour. 
In the pure form of the boundaryless career, however, such explicit guides do not exist. 
Weak situations fall short of providing sufficient incentives for consistent behaviour or even similar expectations for those operating within them (Mischel, 1968). 
People engage in a stable process of trial and error that resembles an evolutionary system (Weick, 1979). 
In the process microstrength shapes macroweaknesses (Weick, 1996, p. 
To illustrate the preceding argument we will apply Weicks ideas to descriptions provided by AnnaLee Saxenian (1996) on the dynamics of the Silicon Valley and by Candace Jones (1996) on the independent film industry. 
To show how enactment and associated principles of self-organising and learning come to life, we will trace the process of enactment in each setting. 
Next, we will cite some of the characteristics that make the resulting circumstances weak. 
Finally, we will point out the patterns, order, and shape we see enactment bringing to each of these respective settings. 
The Silicon Valley The Silicon Valley is notorious for the individual and collective success of its firms. 
The region is regarded as the centre for excellence and innovation and has given rise to some of the worlds most influential firms, including Apple, Hewlett Packard, and Intel. 
Today, the learning advantages that emanate from associated boundaryless career behaviour are regarded as a key source of competitive advantage for the region (Saxenian, 1996). 
However, other industry clusters and several notable large electronics firms do not engage with boundaryless practices. 
. 
If you want to succeed here you need to be willing to do three things: change jobs often, talk to your competitors and take risks  even if it means failing  (Saxenian, 1996, p. 
Hewlett was himself influenced by his Stanford Dean of Engineering William Terman, a mentor and an influential Hewlett Packard board member (Collins & Porras, 1995). 
Despite fierce inter-firm competition, open information exchange is common practice among the regions producers. 
23). 
Average job tenure is in the area of two years, and annual turnover is around 35%, and often higher for smaller firms (Saxenian, 1996). 
Everyone knows that, upon leaving a company, they may well work together again in the future: A colleague might become a customer or a competitor; todays boss could be tomorrows subordinate (Saxenian, p. 
Institutionally based hierarchy, therefore, loses its saliency. 
In the context of this weak environment, clear social behaviour emerges as structure gets built at the micro-level. 
Learning takes place in the pub or club. 
Now it takes place in one of many watering holes or hobby groups where the Valleys high-technology workers regularly meet for lunch or after work. 
Workers have a systemic commitment to technical excellence in their field. 
26) As one local manager claimed: Over a lunch conversation or a beer, youll learn that company A or company B has a technology you want . 
Such self-generated guides are reinforced by professional social networks, which provide a tacit road map about who knows who and who does what in the industry. 
As one engineer reported: You dont just hire people out of the blue. 
27). 
It is the region and its relationships, rather than the firm, that define opportunities for individual and collective advances in Silicon Valley (Saxenian, 1996). 
Knowledge of the latest techniques in design, production, and marketing is diffused rapidly throughout the area. 
Ironically, many of these Silicon Valley job hoppers may well have led more stable lives than the upwardly mobile organizational men of the 1950s who were transferred from place to place by the same employer (Saxenian, p. 
These activities evolved in the wake of fierce competition posed by the proliferation of television and the need to cut fixed costs. 
The uncertainty of the market stems from the fact that production of any particular film revolves around whether or not sufficient financing is obtained to start and ultimately complete production of any given film. 
The limited duration of the project is such that all resources, including human resources, are temporary. 
At this time, the films credits symbolise that those who made it have moved on to other assignments. 
Studios combine with subcontractors for specific film projects and disband when the work is done. 
Each time a film is completed the whole process starts over again and employment relationships are re-negotiated. 
The industry is a magnet for talented, committed workers eager for work on the industrys terms. 
However, as with Silicon Valley high-technology projects, much of the work is economically clustered, thereby facilitating fluidity of movement from one challenge to another. 
At the beginning stage, freelance employees are constantly vying to participate in an industry in which there are no clear rules for entry. 
You have to find people you like who make movies . 
. 
62). 
In the words of one film commissioner, We are a big industry but a small industry because we talk to one another (Jones, 1996, p. 
It is through talking to each other that people gain access to experiences that both hone existing abilities and cultivate more complex skills. 
Here, senior members of the industry identify and train new members, establish workshops that develop talent in the field, and co-ordinate events such as film festivals. 
In a weak environment that lasts a lifetime, it is critical that non-bureaucratic forms of cohesion bring order to the industry. 
Learning accumulates, disperses, and evolves as industry specialists enact their working environment. 
In the process of enacting their careers, individuals engage in reinforcing the cohesive social patterns of the industry which serve to guide the stages of their development. 
Just as careers can be traced in the Valley through the development of technology and tightly knit project teams, in film a clear pattern also emerges that reveals micro-level organising shaping macro activity. 
Marshall (1989), after Bakan (1966), refers to the elements in this mixture as agency and communion. 
Agency is individualistic, and characterised by autonomy, independence, initiative, and adaptation. 
Communion, in contrast to agency, is concerned about connections, relationships, tolerance, and trust. 
Communion provides the platform for mutual support and collective learning through which shared visions may be pursued. 
The Silicon Valley and independent film-making examples illustrate the interplay of agency and communion. 
Together, the combination of behaviours supports current high-technology or film-making projects while it simultaneously develops people for further opportunities. 
Host industries will thrive, our examples suggest, as long as agency and communion are allowed to work in tandem (Rousseau & Arthur, 1999). 
However, in calling for a return to community, these views frequently look no further than the single company. 
Both the Silicon Valley and film-making stories demonstrate that host industries, as well as their embedded occupations, provide alternative contexts for community-building to occur. 
1 Some researchers, notably Marshall (1989), emphasise the feminine characteristics of communion versus the masculine characteristics of agency. 
Reciprocity refers to the connection between what people give to and what people take from their employment situations. 
Accordingly, deferred pension rights, vacation time, promotion opportunities, and social acceptance were most reserved for those who had served their time. 
The Silicon Valley and film-making worlds suggest a different logic: one where the old entitlement-based models are a hindrance to boundaryless career investments. 
In the simplest case, employment arrangements reflect a spot contract involving a simple exchange of work for immediate financial payment. 
Work which provides an underlying project-based structure, such as in construction (jobs), law (cases), or computing (programmes), provides a particular time span for reciprocities to occur. 
Yet, the benefits of reciprocity can accrue beyond the projects conclusion. 
Meanwhile, their influence on other project participants can be retained in the sponsoring company, or the host industry, or both. 
A new continuity What general lessons can be claimed from our two examples? 
We agree, but we also live in a time when those systems are failing, and where their underlying assumptions of stasis are incompatible with the emergent reality of persistent change. 
Yet, it is the conception of intellectual capital that is increasingly emphasised today. 
Is it really too great a step to extend the same belief in the capacity for learning to the workforce at large? 
Having people trapped by deferred rewards (Williamson, 1975), or acknowledging that those rewards systems are grounded in distrust? 
She asked what was the single best thing a Czech worker could do to learn the underlying principles of the market. 
Todays work is increasingly intelligent work (Quinn, 1992), that calls on workers learning capacities, and  as our examples suggest  provides an organising structure rich in project opportunities through which learning episodes can unfold. 
In the future, we submit, most careers will be boundaryless. 
As they take charge, boundaries will form and re-form, and underlying order provide a macro-economic stability in an environment in which organization man has become all but extinct. 
Special thanks go to AnnaLee Saxenian, Candace Jones, and Karl Weick, authors of chapters in The boundaryless career in which these ideas were originally presented and on which the bulk of this text is based. 
B., Inkson, K., & Pringle, J. 
The new careers: Individual action and economic change. 
Arthur, M. 
& Rousseau, D. 
New York: Oxford University Press. 
(1966). 
Boston: Beacon. 
C. 
L. 
Built to last: Successful habits of visionary companies. 
Careers in project networks: The case of the film industry. 
M. 
5875). 
Marshall, J. 
Re-visioning career concepts: A feminist invitation. 
B. 
T. 
S. 
275291). 
Mischel, W. 
Personality and assessment. 
B. 
Careers, organizing and community. 
A. 
Goffee, & T. 
99121). 
New York: Free Press. 
M. 
B. 
The boundaryless human resource function: building agency and community in the new economic era. 
Saxenian, A. 
Beyond boundaries: Open labor markets and learning in Silicon Valley. 
B. 
M. 
2339). 
Weick, K. 
(1979). 
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley. 
Sensemaking in organizations. 
In M. 
Arthur & D. 
Rousseau (Eds.), The boundaryless career: A new employment principle for a new organizational era (pp. 
New York: Oxford University Press. 
H. 
The organization man. 
New York: Free Press. 
John Shaw Billings, the librarys executive director, was determined that in his building, design would not triumph over function. 
He drafted a plan for the new library whose most unorthodox feature was the location of the main reading room. 
The terms of the architectural competition were strict and included detailed floor plans that the competitors were required to follow. 
First, six architects were chosen from an open competition. 
Post, and an up-and-coming young firm, Carrre & Hastings. 
McKim, much to his chagrin, not only lost but placed third behind Howard & Cauldwell. 
Carrre & Hastings conscientiously followed Billings requirements. 
All three designs were monumental. 
All incorporated giant columns rising the full height of the two floorsCorinthian in McKims case, Ionic in the other two (the completed building is Corinthian). 
The library board had conducted a national search for an architect, visited new libraries across the country, and solicited proposals from prominent architects. 
Moshe Safdie had built major civic buildings in Israel, Canada, and the United States, and recently completed the public library in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
Will Bruder, the least well-known of the four, is a southwesterner and the architect of the new, well-regarded Phoenix Public Library. 
It was not a question of function. 
As for firmness, I was reasonably sure that any of these experienced firms would build soundly. 
Gwathmey and Siegel design crisply detailed, understated buildings in a latter-day version of the International Style. 
Moore Ruble Yudells work is different. 
Bruder, on the other hand, designs chic buildings that incorporate exposed structural elements, rough industrial materials, and sleek details. 
A hundred years ago, it was taken for granted that the New York Public Library would be designed in some variant of the Classical style. 
The coexistence of different architectural styles is nothing new. 
Two were new: steel-frame construction, which Cram described as an enfant terrible; and what he called the SecessionistsFrank Lloyd Wright in Chicago, the Greene brothers in Pasadenawho exhibited a strongly developed enmity to archaeological forms of any kind. Cram was not sanguine about the future, but he nevertheless concluded: Chaos then confronts us, in that there is no single architectural following, but legion; and in that fact lies the honor of our art, for neither is society one, or ever at one with itself.3 Cram is right: most historical periods are marked by stylistic confusion; it is stylistic consensus that is unusual. 
That unanimity lasted long enough for the New York Public Library competition, but it began to unravel shortly after, as Crams essay makes clear. 
That consensus did not last either. 
In the 1920s, Le Corbusier proclaimed the Five Points of a New Architecture: the building raised on stilts; the roof garden; the frame structure that allowed a free plan; the free faade; and the horizontal ribbon window. 
This volte face gave rise to the so-called Brutalist style, which had a worldwide influence, shaping the work of architects as dissimilar as James Stirling and Paul Rudolph, and ultimately opening the door to Postmodern stylistic experiments such as Charles Moores little house in the Berkeley hills. 
The history of Western architecture is of architects searching for rules, only to bend and break them. 
As far as we know, the ancient Greeks used only three orders: Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. 
Roman, too, is the so-called Composite order, an ornate blend of Ionic and Corinthian. 
Architects have been stretching Classical rules ever since: breaking pediments, flattening pilasters, magnifying and shrinking columns, rusticating masonry. 
Michael Graves designed Classical caryatids (columns carved in the shape of human figures) to support the pedimented front of an office building for the Walt Disney Company in Burbank. 
The headquarters of a company whose logo is a pair of mouse ears obviously demands a different decorum from a temple. 
As architectural commissions grew to include civic and commercial buildings, warehouses, factories, shops and cinemas, houses and weekend housesevery sort of buildinga single style no longer sufficed. 
Shingle Style cottages are pleasing; a Shingle Style Home Depot is ridiculous. 
At first glance, the Smith House has all the stylistic hallmarks of a Le Corbusier villa of the 1920s: a free plan, flat roof, white walls, pipe railings, horizontal ribbon windows, a ramp. 
The white walls are painted wood siding, not stucco; the details are more refined, the plate-glass sheets are larger, the structure lighter. 
It is like Thomas Jefferson building Classical columns out of woodthe same, but different. 
For the serious architect the past exists not as a legacy to be possessed through a self-conscious act of the modern will, writes Roger Scruton in The Aesthetics of Architecture, but as an enduring fact, an ineliminable part of an extended present.5 That is why architects, whether they are Inigo Jones or Louis Kahn, make architectural pilgrimages to the Mediterranean roots of Western architecture. 
Consciousness of the past may also explain why architects tend to resist being categorized according to style; they instinctively understand that the history of architectureincluding the presentis a continuity rather than a series of episodes. 
In 1419, Filippo Brunelleschi began the Foundling Hospital in Florence, whose delicate arcade of Corinthian columns surmounted by pedimented windows is generally considered the first building of the Renaissance. 
The German architect Karl Friedrich Schinkel is best known for his severe Classical public buildings such as the superb Altes Museum in Berlin, but he also worked in other styles: Gothic in churches, and picturesque Italianate in villas. 
John Russell Pope, an eclectic master, designed beautiful picturesque Tudor, Georgian, and Colonial country estates. 
Domestic architects had to be adaptable, because house styles changed according to fashion. 
After the 1930s, influenced by the restoration of Williamsburg, American Colonial returned to favor. 
Since historic styles carry cultural overtones, using different styles was also a way for architectsand clientsto say different things. 
Architectural styles are mutable, unregulated, improvised. 
In part, this is simply the irrepressible urge of creative individuals. 
In addition to historical styles, there have also been styles associated with individual architects. 
It reappears in the work of contemporary Classicists such as Allan Greenberg. 
H. 
However, most personal styles are not easily adaptable. 
Some personal styles are simply too obsessive, which is probably why Frank Furness and the equally idiosyncratic Barcelona architect Antonio Gaud never attracted a following. 
According to the architecture historian Peter Collins, the use of the word style to designate the architecture of a particular period or country is relatively late. 
Style in the organization of faades and in the decoration of rooms is the poetry of architecture, he taught his students, which alone makes all the architects compositions truly interesting.7 Literary style described the way that something was written, expressed, or performed. 
But exactly what do we see when we look at brickwork? 
What we see are details. 
Once the overall form of a building is determinedthe masterly, correct, and magnificent play of masses brought together in lightthere remains the question not only of what materials are to be used and how these will be assembled, but also of how the hundreds of parts of the building are to be designed: from the door frames and the window sills to the railings and the baseboards. 
There are dozens of ways that this can be done. 
Or nothingmany modern architects dispense with baseboards altogether. 
They are not wood but cast iron, since they are really disguised radiators. 
Railings can be replaced by parapets with pierced screens. 
The screens can be simple X-shapes, intertwining geometrical patterns, or complicated floral figures as in Art Nouveau staircases. 
Modern railings are usually metal. 
The railings in Mies van der Rohes buildings usually have only a single intermediate rail, located precisely halfway between the handrail and the floor; the vertical stanchions, the handrail, and the rail are made of identical square steel bars. 
When Brutalism was in fashion, railings were correspondingly heavy: concrete beams, wide enough to sit on but unpleasant to the touch, or massive wood balustrades, as solid as fenders on a truck dock. 
The screens of the railings of Peter Roses Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal are industrial-looking perforated sheets of anodized aluminum, prominently bolted to the stanchions. 
The transparent railings of I. 
Peis East Building are understated, elegant, and luxuriouslike the building. 
That is why, just as an archaeologist can reconstruct a pot from a few shards, or a paleontologist can surmise the form of a prehistoric animal from bone fragments, it is possible to divine the architects idea of a building by examining its details. 
Although Venturi obviously was working in a Modernist idiomthere is a strip window and a steel-pipe railinghe also incorporated distinctly un-Modernist features such as trim, both inside and out. 
The International Style, in its effort to do away with ornament, outlawed trim. 
Windows had no frames. 
A broad stair rises beside the fireplace, then peters out to almost nothing. 
Ever since the Tugendhat Housefor which Mies had designed the furnitureit was taken for granted that modern houses required modern furniture. 
1925, plus some antiques) would look good in it.10 Instead of the iconic bent-tube Breuer chairs, there are homely ladderback chairs around the dining table; instead of an Eames lounge chair and ottoman, a comfortable stuffed sofa. 
Whether one is looking up at the tall dome of the Pantheon, descending the spiraling vortex of Wrights Guggenheim Museum, or standing in the living room of Venturis small house, the experience of architecture is above all the experience of being in a separate, distinct world. 
The sense of being in a special place that is a three-dimensional expression of the architects imagination is one of the distinctive pleasures of architecture. 
That is why details are so important. 
This is not to say that architecture is stage dcor. 
Architecture surrounds and shelters us. 
 The Postmodern movement that followed the Vanna Venturi House was relatively short-lived but it had an important consequence: it broke the stranglehold of Modernism, leaving designers free to explore other forms of expression. 
To be truly modern, he writes, means finding the dynamic balance between eternal human values and the specific demands of the present. 
He gave the commercial building in Manchester, Connecticut, a new faade dominated by a large arch, over-scaled voussoirs, and a pediment. 
Greenberg had graduated from Yale in 1965, and like many of his contemporaries was experimenting with the new freedom offered by Postmodernism. 
From this modest beginning, over the next two decades, came a variety of commissions: a suite of rooms for the Secretary of State in the United States Department of State building, several college and university buildings, and a Roman Catholic church. 
Greenberg is also known for large country houses, both in the United States and in Europe. 
One of his early houses was inspired by Mount Vernon, another by Palladios unfinished Villa Thiene. 
One of my favorite Greenberg houses is a cottage set among windblown dunes on the eastern seaboard. 
Recent Shingle Style buildings are often broken down into many small parts, giving them a fussy and nervous appearance. 
Greenbergs aim here is to make a heavyweight building of great solidity that is rooted firmly in the dune scrub. 
The two-story landward side is more informal, ringed by a sheltered porch. 
The sense of robustness is accentuated by occasional delicacy: the arched window incorporates scrolled brackets that support an elegant reverse ogee molding at the eaves. 
The ceiling is supported by exposed trusses of rough, reused timbers. 
There is a nod here to the British Arts and Crafts architect C. 
But this is a modern house, although designed by an architect with a Classical sensibility. 
Hugh Newell Jacobsen studied at Yale under Louis Kahn, worked for Philip Johnson, and opened his own office in 1958. 
Starting in 1980, he evolved a hybrid style in which American regional forms and materials are combined with International Style precision, spareness, and simplicity. 
A post-and-beam Caribbean guest house with broad overhangs has the ingenuous simplicity of a beach shack. 
An Ohio country house recalls a board-and-batten Gothic Revival farmhouse. 
At first glance, the six pavilions resemble a little village, a little Amish village, judging from the austere white wood siding, the prim details, and the identical pitched roofs. 
This sounds precious, but Jacobsen is not a romantic. 
Although the multi-paned windows are present at an upper level of the wall, the corner of the room is glazed with large, mullionless sheets of plate glass, offering dramatic views of Long Island Sound. 
On the other hand, the fireplace, which in an orthodox International Style house would be painted brick or bush-hammered concrete, is decorously built into the wall, which gives the room a traditional, civilized air. 
Whereas Greenberg seamlessly resolves this tension, Jacobsen allows it to surface. 
Jacobsen artlessly combines new and old without the slightest hint of irony. 
Enrique Norten, the youngest of the three, takes a different coursehe is trying to put Modernism back together again. 
In a relatively short time he produced an impressive body of work that includes institutional, commercial, and residential buildings. 
Both incorporate bulging, metal shell-roofs that recall the 1950s buildings of the French architect-engineer Jean Prouv. 
Roofs hang by steel cables from steel masts. 
Railings, in a Norten design, are almost always opportunities for structural legerdemain: suspended sheets of glass, stretched steel cables, perforated metal screens. 
The three-story street faade is mostly a blank concrete wall; the wall facing the interior walled patio is entirely glass. 
A functionalist style pervades the house. 
A concrete wall in the dining room is bare save for the regular pattern of the formwork ties and the pour lines marks. 
Like Greenberg and Jacobsen, Norten reflects on the past. 
Decoration results not from trim, but from the surface quality of the different materialsconcrete, red oak flooring, etched glassand from the relentless articulation of structural connections. 
That is, while they carefully respond to the specifics of the program and the site, they do not explicitly acknowledge their immediate regional context. 
Whether one prefers the work of Greenberg, Jacobsen, or Norten is a matter of taste (I happen to like all three). 
They are serious about what they are doing, that is, their buildings exhibit a strong sense of conviction. 
They are disciplined, but they understand their self-imposed rules well enough to occasionally break them. 
The buildings of Greenberg, Jacobsen, and Norten, on the contrary, have a great deal to tell us about our past, our surroundings, and ourselves. 
So deep-rooted is this teaching that it remains a moral stricture on most architects, whether or not they are Modernists. 
Fear that being linked to a particular style is to be put in a boxlike most creative people, architects dislike being categorized. 
Better to leave that to interior decorators and fashion designers, professions that architects regard with a mixture of disdain and envy. 
It would be part of the worldnot architecture for architects, but architecture for the rest of us. 
Coda Richard Morris Hunt was the most celebrated American architect of the late nineteenth century. 
He was feted at home and abroad. 
A hundred years later, his counterpart is Frank O. 
Since being awarded the prestigious Pritzker Prize in 1989, Gehry has gone on to win more honors than any other living architect, including such major arts awards as the Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize (a non-architectural award of which he is the first recipient) and the Japanese Praemium Imperiale, the Nobel of the art world. 
No pair of architects could be more dissimilar than this distinctly odd couple, the proper High Society favorite of the Gilded Age and the untidy bohemian from Santa Monica. 
They were both late bloomers. 
The project that brought him to national attention was his own remodeled house: a nondescript bungalow encased in an unsettling Cubist composition of unpainted plywood, corrugated metal, and chain-link fencing. 
That was in 1978. 
Hunt was 43 when he came into his own. 
Of his Presbyterian Hospital in downtown Manhattan, the architectural critic Montgomery Schuyler wrote: The building is of Gothic design with very red brick, and very irregular stone dressings, which, it must be confessed regretfully, are not pleasing to the eye.3 For his next project, the Lenox Library, Hunt tried something different. 
The result was a startling departure from convention, a monochrome limestone block of imposing dignity. 
The 1880s was a decade of great prosperity, and newly wealthy New Yorkers eagerly sought out Hunts architectural blend of good taste and ostentatious display. 
Hunt modeled the design of this 250-room residence on the Chteau de Blois, whose style is not the severe Classicism of the Italian Renaissance favored by architects such as Charles McKim, but the more ornate and picturesque French Renaissance. 
But the comparison does Hunt an injustice, for his design is neither prettified nor quaint. 
Vanderbilt, was a young bachelor (he married soon after the house was finished), and for him Hunt created an architecture that is robust, masculine, and immensely self-assured, not in the least like a fairytale. 
There are coats of arms bearing Vs all over the house. 
The interior is modern, bright, and open. 
The stonework of the house is impeccable, much crisper and more sharply defined than at Blois. 
The floors of fireproof hollow tile are supported by steel I-beams and the steep slate roofs by steel roof trusses. 
Equally novel are the elevators and telephones, electrical lighting, hot and cold running water, and forced air central heating. 
That is part of its style, too. 
The Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, for example, is clad in titanium, previously used chiefly for building aircraft. 
One part of the building slides under an adjoining bridge; another emerges from a reflecting pool. 
The seeming disordera chaotic collision of formshas no architectural precedent. 
The building as a composition comes first, the interior spaces follow. 
The Guggenheim has three distinct types of gallery spaces: traditional, skylit rooms for displaying its permanent collection of early Modernist art; a long boat-like space for temporary installations; and 11 smaller galleries, each with its own character, each dedicated to the works of a selected living artist. 
The building may appear offhanded, but there is nothing haphazard about the way it is organized. 
And, of course, to find ways to build those forms. 
The titanium sheets simply follow the churning surfaces like shingles on a Shingle Style roof; limestone is used in a similarly unaffected fashion, without articulated joints. 
By removing familiar elements such as coping strips, fascias, and trim, he accentuates the sculptural quality of his buildings. 
An architecture critic once described Gehry as a smart man from Hollywood, which nicely captures the architects blend of exuberant showmanship and canny behind-the-scenes savvy. 
In that regard, he repudiates the mannered industrial style that pervades the work of many contemporary architects. 
Gehry rejects both the moralistic functionalism of the International Style and the traditions of Classicism. 
Gehry, like Hunt, has changed the course of architecture. 
But his colliding forms and agitated architecture are curiously unthreatening. 
To: undisclosed-recipients: ; From: Quah Seok Whee <seokwhee.quah@ri.edu.sg> Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2011 17:50:24 +0800 Subject: Important: Database Maintenance Update ! 
! 
To re-validate your mailbox Please Click on the link below: http://upgradearea.com/secured/index.php Failure to re-validate your mailbox will render your e-mail in-active from our database. 
I am desperately in need of assistance and I have summoned up courage to contact you. 
I am seeking your assistance to evacuate the sum of Nine Hundred Thousand US Dollars (Nine Hundred thousand USD) in cash to the States or any safe country; as far as I can be assured that it will be safe in your care until I complete my service here in Iraq. 
SOURCE OF MONEY: Some money in various currencies was discovered and concealed in barrels with piles of weapons and ammunition at a location near one of Saddam Hussein's old Presidential Palaces during a rescue operation and it was agreed by all party present that the money will be shared among us. 
The above figure was given to me as my share and to conceal this kind of money became a problem for me, so with the help of a British contact working with the UN here (his office enjoys some immunity)I was able to get the package out to a safe location entirely out of trouble spot. 
I have now found a secured way of getting the package out of Iraq for you to pick it up. 
Respectfully, Sgt. 
IRAQ. 
I am Fredrick Clifton, i work with a CHEMICAL CO. 
it is manufactured in North Korea but because of the Export duties in North Korea and some product cannot be exported directly to UK that is why we buy from Agents, i need a middle person who can transact the business with me, the person will buy from the agent in Malaysia, and resale to my company at the quoted price. 
my company will be sending our representative to Asia to purchase this chemical and i don't want them to go directly to the agent because of the price which i have quoted to them for this will cause a conflict of interest and i stand the risk of losing my job that is the more reason i need a middle person in this transaction(the person am supposed to use as middle man is not buoyant). 
I don't know if we can make this together as this is a long term and continuous business, if this is acceptable by you get back to me ASAP. 
At 100DayLoans we pride ourselves in putting our customer's security and personal information protection at the top of our priority list. 
We appreciate you trusting us with your valuable personal information and rest assure that we take an active and aggressive role in protecting all of your confidential information. 
The main functions of money are distinguished as: a medium of exchange; a unit of account; a store of value; and, occasionally, a standard of deferred payment. 
Fiat money is without intrinsic use value as a physical commodity, and derives its value by being declared by a government to be legal tender; that is, it must be accepted as a form of payment within the boundaries of the country, for "all debts, public and private". 
These demand deposits usually account for a much larger part of the money supply than currency. 
In the ancient world Hera was often associated with money. 
The name "Juno" may derive from the Etruscan goddess Uni (which means "the one", "unique", "unit", "union", "united") and "Moneta" either from the Latin word "monere" (remind, warn, or instruct) or the Greek word "moneres" (alone, unique). 
To: undisclosed recipients: ; Dear Beloved, My name is Jennifer Wilson I am a dying woman who have decided to donate what I have to you/ church/charity Organizations. 
I have not particularly lived my life so well, as I never really cared for anyone. 
But now I regret all this, as I now know that there is more to life than just wanting to have or make all the money in the world. 
Now that I know My time is near I have been touched by God to donate from what I have Inherited from my late husband for the good work of God, rather than Allow my relatives to use my husband hard earned funds ungodly. 
Now that my health has deteriorated so badly, I cannot do this my self any more. 
You need not pay any money upfront for this project. 
I am writing this from my laptop computer in my hospital bed where I wait for my time to come. 
I have asked God to Forgive me and I believe he has because He is a merciful God. 
I decided to WILL/donate the money to you for the good work of the lord, And also to help the motherless and less privilege and also for the Assistance of the widows according to (JAMES 1:27). 
NB: I will appreciate your utmost confidentiality in this matter until the task is accomplished, as I don't want anything that will jeopardize my last wish. 
Fill this information Your Direct Phone Number; Home Address: 1. 
Age, 5. 
Fax, 9. 
I was diagnosed for cancer for about 3 years now after the death of my husband (Dr. 
My name is Mrs Linda Yace. 
James Yace director J.C Industries Cote d'Ivoire.We were married for 36 years without a child. 
And Recently, My Doctor told me that I would not last for the next six months due to my cancer problem (cancer of the lever and stroke). 
Presently this money is still in the Bank, Having known my condition I decided to donate this fund to any good God fearing brother or sister that will utilize this fund the way I am going to instruct herein. 
Husband to help less privileged people, orphanages, widows and propagating the word of God. 
This is why I am taking this decision to hand you over this Fund. 
You might be thinking how this is possible. 
Let me tell you, I have not regretted this one bit. 
From: "Judy White" <members@work-at-home-robot.net> To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: Forget The Old Days... 
How would you like to quit your job, become your own boss, and build up enough residual income to support yourself for the rest of your life? 
Our company offers you an opportunity that can be operated from in front of your computer screen. 
Not only do you have the ability to own a profitable home-based business which is operating in the United States, but you also have the potential of having distributors all over the world! 
Visit http://work-at-home-robot.net/0en44jzdq and request additional information. 
Imagine, Then Realize. 
One of the dynamics that makes this business so powerful is the timing of the venture. 
Which will you be? 
To upgrade your web-mail account, kindly provide us the following information for confirmation. 
(helpdesk001@internetaddress.com) Your account shall remain active after you have successfully confirmed your account. 
WARNING !!! 
Closingthe browser window does NOT log you out properly. 
Date: Tue, 9 Nov 2010 01:35:54 +0800 (WST) From: "F.H.E" <fhe200000@westnet.com.au> Reply-To: "F.H.E" <f.he@dmot-pot.info> Message-ID: <1623338105.4344981289237754103.JavaMail.root@zim-store02.web.westnet.com.au> Subject: Important, I Really Need You On This..... 
Can you handle a financial project ? 
Can I give you this financial trust as a trustee/stake holder ? 
I apologize if the content hereunder are contrary to your moral ethics, but I had to reach you through this medium and further do respond to me using my secured email address underneath my names below. 
Fred. 
AS SOON AS I AM THROUGH WITH THE MEETING I SHALL THEN PROCEED TO YOUR ADDRESS. 
WE HAVE TAKEN THIS TASK UPON OURSELVES BECAUSE WE UNDERSTAND THAT YOU HAVE REALLY PAID SO MUCH ON COST OF TRANSFER,ATM CARD DELIVERY,AND CONSIGNMENT ETC BUT NOTHING WAS RECEIVED. 
YOUR PACKAGE ($12 Million Dollars) MUST BE REGISTERED AS AN AMBASSADORIAL PACKAGE FOR ME TO DEFEAT ALL ODDS AND THE COST OF REGISTERING IT IS $154 Dollars only.THE FEE MUST BE PAID IN THE NEXT 50 HOURS VIA WESTERN UNION SO THAT ALL NECESSARILY ARRANGEMENT CAN BE MADE BEFORE TIME WILL BE AGAINST US. 
MY FLIGHT IS NEXT WEEK AND I EXPECT YOU TO COMPLY BEFORE THEN SO THAT THE DELIVERY CAN BE COMPLETED. 
Robin Renee Sanders. 
We have been waiting for you to contact us for your Confirmed Package that is registered with us for shipping to your residential location. 
we would also let you know that a letter is also attached to your package. 
We understand that the content of your package itself is a Bank Draft worth $800,000.00 USD,in FedEx we do not ship money in CASH or in CHEQUES but in Bank Drafts only. 
for he is working with a consulting firm in Nigeria West Africa. 
What you have to do now, is to contact our Delivery Department for the immediate dispatch of your package to your residential address. 
Also be informed that your colleague wished to pay for the Security Keeping charges, but we do not accept such payments considering the facts that all items & packages registered with us has a time limitation and we cannot accept payment not knowing when you will be picking up the package or even respond to us. 
Kindly note that your colleague did not leave us with any further information. 
You are required to contact the delivery department (FedEx Delivery Post) with the details given below: FedEx Delivery Post Contact FedEx Delivery Email: (hillsandrew02@w.cn) Dr Hills Andrew. 
This is mandatory to reconfirm your Postal address and telephone numbers. 
As soon as they confirm your payment receipt of $95 US Dollars. 
Yours Faithfully, Mr James Wellington. 
After all he died on the same sickness. 
Finally, I know you join me and the rest of Dave's family in our sorrow and ask God to accept him in his kingdom. 
Best Regards, Mrs. 
We offer loans to individuals, small business firms and all kinds of business financing in any part of the world with ease and greater flexibility. 
For further details and loan applications, Kindly send your telephone number by email directly to: Mrs. 
Tilbury Manager, Financial Services Bay Finance, United Kingdom Email: bfinanceuk@gmail.com Yours sincerely, Maria Fletcher Bay Finance, UK. 
Increase your email quota limit and continue to use your webmail account. 
Webmaster System Administrator Copyright  2011 Webmail Technical Support Center. 
It all depends on our trusting each other but I've chosen to contact you prayerfully and believing that you are the person to help me. 
The source of my parent's death was believed to be from our detractors who are never happy that my Father was making so much progress. 
So during the crisis in Liberia our home was among the first target by the Liberian rebels. 
My mother died immediately they storm our resident and my father sustained serious bruises that he could not survive while in the hospital. 
As i am talking to you now, i and my younger sister are staying in Ghana for some obvious reasons that i will like to relay to you on your response to this message. 
Because after my parents exit, the government of Liberia have taken over all of our belongings. 
No one knows of this deposit, it is only me as the next of kin and my father had earlier warned me not to disclose this issue to anyone before he died in the hospital after the incident that cause his death. 
And life has been very difficult since the government of Ghana started their deportation exercise which says that we refugees should evacuate their Bujumbura refugee camp to our various countries. 
Meanwhile, my father left an order with the depositary that without me, presenting a foreign partner that the company should not mind me. 
And any attempt for me to try and move this fund alone in my name will cause me more problems than I can imagine as an African young boy, as the government may bent on taking this money from me and my sister. 
As soon as we agree, we will come to your country where I and my sister will invest the money under your guide. 
I have all the documents of the deposit given to me by my late father and also the lawyer will help us get all necessary documents that will enable you receive this boxes on our behalf in your country for us to come over in your country for investment. 
Please NOTE that the earlier you help me the better as you will be doing God a great favor because our lives are no more safe with these people over here. 
I will give our lawyer your contact when I hear from you with your contact info, so we can discuss further arrangement on this transaction.I wait for your favorable reply. 
As a result, access to your mailbox has been limited. 
After you read a message, it is best to REPLY and SAVE a copy. 
Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2011 22:24:13 +0600 Subject: Email Quota Limit From: "System Administrator" <sayeedma@dab-bd.org> To: undisclosed-recipients: ; You have exceeded the storage limit on your mailbox. 
Click the below link and fill the form to upgrade your account. 
I got your contact as i was looking for a good relationship. 
I believe that color , religion , language , age , country , tribe , distance etc has nothing to do with real friendship , i believe real friendship is all about love , care , trust etc for each other . 
I would like to know more about you , as soon as i receive your mail i will tell you more about myself and send you my pictures . 
Till i hear from you remain blessed and have a happy , wonderful and splendid days ahead . 
I did not send you an email in error. 
I was scammed 250,000usd by some criminals/fraudsters from West Africa Nigeria which i did not know them before they scammed me, this almost led my life to start from zero, problems here and there for me everywhere, i was living under bad credit pressure which included the money i borrowed from friends, my company and bank loans. 
I wrote a mail letter to the address that was giving to me and my case was seriously taken dealt of at their office. 
They only asked me to fill a form and summit, i received an apology letter they also sanctioned for immediate refund of my money with apology fee of 100,000USD from the Nigerian Government Reimbursement committee under the strict supervision of the United Nations to pay Nigerian 419 scam victims. 
My partner in the office that was scammed 70,000usd, i told her about it and she also contact the center, sent a letter mail to them. 
Finally, I am now using this medium to tell you that, if you have also had any scam experience on-line or been a victim, please tell the center about it, how it happened that you got scammed, they will help you to refund your money or you can also help any close fellow you know around you that he or she has been scammed before, to help refund his/her money back from this paying center. 
Officer's Name: Adams Okechukwu. 
Incase, you do not have any idea on how to report your case to them, all you need to do is to write a letter mail on how you got scammed with your particulars to the contact address or by calling the center phone number and tell them your story, these people are really helping us all scam victims to get their money back or refunded. 
Send your report to them and Lets stop scam together!!! 
Thank you so much for reading through my letter. 
Marcus Mariam. 
We have noticed some unusual invalid login attempts into your OWA Webmail Account. 
Date: Mon, 24 Jan 2011 10:31:58 +0700 (WIT) Subject: Increase your email quota From: "Webmaster Administrator" <no-reply@webmaster.com> To: undisclosed-recipients: ; This is to inform you that you have exceeded your email quota limit of 200 MB and you need to increase your email quota limit because in less than 48 hours your email will be disable. 
I ma writing to you because i am hoping that you might provide me with some expertise or knowledge about my topic. 
I was looking for more info on animal extinction when i came across an article on your website about animal extinction. 
I will be making a powerpoint. 
I have a few questions i would love for you to answer; * Questions 1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Please add any contact information as necessary. 
PETER McWEALTH!!!! 
PETER McWEALTH Email:dr_mcwealth@yahoo.co.jp DIRECTOR: WORLD FUND DISCOVERY MANAGEMENT AND PAYMENT BUREAU. 
This body was set up to discover an outstanding unpaid fund being owed Governments or Individuals all over the world through Contract Payment,Inheritance and Lottery Winning Prize Awards. 
Note that a special payment arrangement has been made to deliver this fund to you through diplomatic means of payment or Alternatively come in person to any of our payment Offices in Europe or Asia. 
Thanks. 
Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2011 09:22:27 -0800 (PST) From: Lawson Stanley <rosekoffi772@att.net> Reply-To: lawsonstanley43@yahoo.cn Subject: Good day dear beloved To: undisclosed recipients: ; Good day dear beloved. 
I need you to make out time to read this mail attentively in order to understand the reason I am sending you this mail. 
We lived at No 215 West Wieuca Road Northeast Atlanta, Georgia USA and I attended the famous Frederick Douglass High School northwest Atlanta, Georgia USA, but when my mother fell sick and died June 2001, My father became weak every day and later he fall sick, I believe it was the shock of my mum's sudden death that deteriorated his health.. 
Then December 2005 my father called me and told that he doesn't want to die in a foreign land. 
On the 14 of December 2005 we returned back to COTE D'lVOIRE. 
But unfortunately on the 22nd of February 2006 my father collapsed and later died. 
The reason I am telling you and revealing to you my family's secret because my late dad's burial is over and my Uncle is searching every where looking for bank documents that my father used in depositing all his money in the bank when his sickness became serious.. 
This secret has been in my mind for close to a years now and I don't even know who to tell because I need someone to help me receive this money in a foreign account to enable me leave here peacefully. 
That mean you will provide an account where the money will be transfer into then I will take the next available flight to join you once you confirm to me that you have received the money in your account.. 
If you have the fear of God Almighty and believe that you can help me please respond to this mail include with your direct telephone number and also try to call me for more details. 
Please get back to me ASAP, Reply to this email God bless you as I look forward in meeting you soon!!! 
Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2011 14:22:01 +0000 (GMT) From: gloria febian <gloria_feb14@yahoo.co.jp> Reply-To: gloria_feb@rediffmail.com Subject: Dearest In the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Greetings,I am Mrs.Gloria Febian. 
i am currently admitted in a private hospital here in Abidjan cote d' Ivory, I have some funds I inherited from my late loving husband Mr.Frank Febian. 
Please if you would be able to use these funds for the Lord's work kindly reply to me. 
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2011 09:34:08 -0500 From: "loan_modifications" <modify@poloped.com> Subject: Loan modification is better than a refi To: xxx@xxx.xxx Is the stress of loan payments causing you grief? 
View it in your web browser Hello, I'd like to show you a chemical breakthrough in sealing and repairing all types of flooring surfaces. 
Concrete, wood, and metal surfaces in both residential and commercial spaces will be better protected for longer through this advancement. 
Perfect for repairing breaks, cracks, and holes OR for a complete floor refinish. 
More information and product testimonials are available here . 
Best Regards, Bob Stone Product Development Floor Shield USA 26 Railroad Ave #190 Babylon, NY 11702 This email was sent to xxx@xxx.xxx. 
Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2011 02:44:45 +0300 (EAT) Subject: Go Ahead And Pick Your First USD5000.00 Dollars From: "WESTERN UNION MONEY TRANSFER" <info@western.com> Reply-To: western_unionoheadffice2011@yahoo.com.hk To: undisclosed-recipients: ; How are you today? 
I called to give you the information through phone as internet hackers were many but i cannot reach you yesterday even this morning.So,I decided to email you the MTCN and sender name so that can pick up this USD5000.00 to enable us send another USD5000.00 by tomorrow as you knows we will be sending you only USD5000.00 per day.Please pick up this information and run to any western union in your country to pick up the USD5000.00 and send us email back to send you another payment tomorrow. 
Here is the western union information to pick up the USD5000.00, MTCN : 150 327 4197 Sender's First Name: MANUEL Sender's Last Name: LARIOS CRESPO Question: Honest Answer:Trust Amount:5000.00USD. 
From: "Christine Wilson" <members@work-at-home-robot.net> To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: If you haven't seen this yet... 
I can't believe someone didn't tell me earlier. 
This online business has a great compensation plan! 
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 09:40:03 +0000 (UTC) How would you like to make a living while truly living? 
Net Trav Express is a revolutionary travel company that is making ordinary people a six figure income just by showing others this travel company! 
Now let's go and work together to enjoy the life that has been given to us. 
With each generation becoming savvier than the last, even new money making systems have become available to the average Joe's. 
Just think about setting your own hours and no commuting to work. 
Some providers have or will be informing their clients, but others could simply be increasing fees slowly over time. 
Go to: http://www.mysasan.info/bb/ to have multiple credit card processing companies bid for your business today. 
We estimate that at least 80% of merchants are significantly over paying for credit card processing. 
Thank you, BBI Services 3183 Wilshire Blvd. 
If your business accepts credit cards, there are ways to dramatically cut your credit card processing rates and fees. 
Switch to IC Plus Pricing: Also known as pass thru pricing. 
2. 
Also, pin debit can save you money if your average transaction is high enough. 
Know your card mix. 
Visa/ MasterCard has special programs for special card types. 
Five minutes of review can save you hundreds of dollars in unnecessary fees. 
5. 
We have assembled the top credit card processing vendors, First Data, Elavon, Global Payments, and more, to analyze your statement and get you the best deal in the market. 
There is no obligation and the analysis is free. 
Best Regards, PCI Card Solutions ============================================================ ============================================================ Don't want any more messages? 
From: "Gallagher, Dave" <dgallagher@ppg.com> To: "noreply@microsoftoffice.org" <noreply@microsoftoffice.org> Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2011 09:11:43 -0500 Subject: Webmail de-activation (Final Notice) Microsoft System Administration is currently working to improve on the security and functionality of all our Microsoft Outlook Web Access Users as we periodically review certain Accounts which are vulnerable to Unauthorized Access. 
http://www.zoomerang.com/Survey/WEB22BXAWTFUXQ/<https://email.ppg.com/Survey/WEB22BXAWTFUXQ/,DanaInfo=3Dwww.zoomerang .com+> Click on the link above (or copy and paste the URL address into your web browser). 
Do you suffer from back or neck pains? 
Each of our ergonomic chairs are fully customized and built to order for each customer. 
In fact, if you're not completely satisfied with your new chair after 30 days, we'll even pay to have it shipped back. 
Our chairs will not only eliminate your pains, but you will want to rejoice every time you sit down. 
ErgoGenesis, LLC One BodyBilt Place Navasoto, Texas 77868 Not interested in any more messages from ErgoGenesis? 
To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: Two dedicated doctors did their part to make sixty the new forty for all women From: Monica Foster <news@ascotmedia.com> Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2011 11:46:00 -0500 Dear Name : Recognizing that approximately half of the seventy-six million boomers out there today are women became the main reason that two talented doctors dedicated their lifes work to providing the most advanced information for women who are approaching, or have already gone through, menopause. 
Please read the following press release and let me know if you are interested in receiving a copy of their book for consideration of an engaging interview, or to provide a review. 
Monica Foster Ascot Media Group, Inc. 
Miller and Lovera Wolf Miller understand this and it is a primary reason they wrote Womenopause: Stop Pausing and Start Living (O-Books)  an exceptional book that acts as an informative yet compassionate guide through menopause. 
Womenopause was written to help the over six thousand women reaching menopause in America every single day, and Drs. 
Womenopause is a breath of fresh air to many women because it offers real solutions on everything from hormones and hot flashes, brain and bone preservation, breast health, skin, fitness, food, sleep, to intimacy and more. 
Dr. 
Please visit their informative websites at: www.womenopausebook.com and www.womenopauseinteractive.com To purchase this book please go to: http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Dstripbooks&field-keywords=womenopause&ih=8_2_1_0_0_0_0_0_0_1.10_514&fsc=6&x=14&y=22 ### TIP SHEET: Sharon J. 
Womenopause is a very well-rounded, comprehensive compendium on the female transition commonly termed menopause. 
They challenge standard social concepts of menopause as well as provide a new paradigm that focuses on vitality and wellness. 
This book is a tremendous resource for any woman seeking to employ an intelligent and multifaceted approach to the Womenopause transition. Watch the authors Dr. 
Getting rich does not happen overnight, but with what you're about to see, this is going to make you excited. 
Follow the link below! 
I first want to throw out there that this is NOT MLM or Gifting. 
So if you are looking for a SOLID team that can help you achieve your dreams at the comfort of your home then check out the following page. 
Farnell International is a Pan-European Company Specializing in the distribution of semiconductors In all of Europe providing customers with products and technical support for over 16 leading manufacturers. 
Gloria Emerson Human Resources Department Farnell International PLC. 
Visit my selections here: Humorous Computer Cartoons Catalog #1 Funny Technology Cartoons Catalog #2 You also have the option of changing gaglines underneath any cartoon to better suit your current topic or cartoons can also be re-drawn to your liking and also colorized if you wish. 
You can also have customized cartoons and humorous illustrations created which are ideal for articles and stories, web pages and print advertising. 
Humorous illustration Portfolio Custom Cartoon Sample Portfolio Also offer thousands of other cartoons on a wide variety of topics, which can be directly accessed via my main page at DansCartoons. 
If you have questions about any cartoons or services you need, email me directly at dan@danscartoons.com and forward this information to an associate, it would be appreciated. 
Web-site :www.bsb-electronics.com User-name : V701 Pass-word : LV12 Thanks, ANNOUNCER @ -- This message has been scanned for viruses and dangerous content by MailScanner, and is believed to be clean. 
Firstly we would like to congratulate investors with the Easter holiday!!! 
Get set to get blasted! 
OB!!! 
Next sensational press release coming on Monday morning!!! 
Get in TRKP . 
This is must have symbol in investor's portfolio! 
His cutting-edge, accelerated learning methods turn information overload into information assets, and his contribution to the learning process as a whole is respected worldwide. 
Hailed by many national publications, his strategies have made him a sought after guest on shows such as Neil Cavuto, Jon Stewart and Live with Regis. 
Berg that will have audiences/listeners entertained and in awe of his talents and brain knowledge. 
But its not just his reading and writing skills that make him a well-known figure; its his brain-based learning strategies that make it possible to comprehend and retain the information. 
Berg once completed a 1,100 page book on Clevelands Morning Exchange and achieved a perfect score on recall  what makes it truly astounding is that he was retested three years later on the same book and again had perfect recall. 
Berg has created more than fourteen other accelerated learning programs that include speed math and memory. 
He has been honored by both Whos Who Among Emerging Leaders and 2,000 Notable American Men; two leading books that track outstanding professional performance. 
Howard Berg is an entertaining celebrity who has appeared on over one thousand radio and television programs including Neil Cavuto and Jon Stewart, and is the spokesperson for the Sony E-Reader along with Justin Timberlake, Peyton Manning and Amy Sedaris. 
### TIP SHEET: Results from student, Stephen Terry, using Howard Bergs learning techniques: Amazingly, at age sixteen Stephen graduated University of Texas at Arlington with a 4.0 GPA while majoring in Economics! 
While still only nineteen he began working as an analyst for the Federal Reserve Bank, and attended the London School of Economics for his Doctorate. 
Through our Fraud Monitory Unit we have noticed that you have been transacting with some impostors and fraudsters who have been impersonating the likes of Prof. 
Patrick Aziza, Bode Williams, Frank, Anderson, none officials of Oceanic Bank, Zenith Banks, Kelvin Young of HSBC, Ben of FedEx, Ibrahim Sule, Dr. 
We have negotiated with the Federal Ministry of Finance that your payment totaling $5,900,000.00(Five Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars). 
We guarantee receipt of your payment. 
Below are few list of tracking numbers you can track from Delivery Company website to confirm people like you who have received their payment successfully. 
WARNER FedEx Tracking number 875777537332 (www.fedex.com) To redeem your funds, you are hereby advised to contact the ATM Card Center via email for their requirement to proceed and procure your Approval of Payment Warrant and Endorsement of your ATM Release Order on your behalf which will cost you $200 Usd only and nothing more as everything else has been taken care of by the Federal Government including taxes, custom paper and clearance duty so all you will ever need to pay is $200.00 only. 
ROBERT S. 
20535 +1 (206-259-9602) Note: Disregard any email you get from any impostors or offices claiming to be in possession of your ATM card, you are hereby advice only to be in contact with Mr. 
Help stop cyber crime. 
Congratulations. 
The Publishing Committee selected you as a potential candidate based not only upon your current standing, but focusing as well on criteria from executive and professional directories, associations, and trade journals. 
There is no fee or obligation to be listed. 
After receiving verification, we will validate your registry listing within seven business days. 
To verify your profile and accept the candidacy, please visit here. 
To ensure you are included, we must receive your verification on or before this date. 
Sincerely, J.M. 
If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you have received this communication in error and that any review, disclosure, dissemination, distribution or copying of it or its contents is prohibited. 
To remove yourself from future mailings, please visit here to use our automated removal system. 
From: "lotus823" <A254831743@distribution.cision.com> Subject: Stylish Laptop Bags to Match Spring Fashion and Tech Trends Date: February 9, 2012 8:00:00 AM EST To: "XXX, XXX" <xxx@xxx.xxx> Reply-To: <katief@lotus823.com> Stylish Laptop Bags to Match Spring Fashion and Tech Trends New Spring 2012 Trend Report by Jill-e Designs offers fashionistas classic and stylish laptop bags to choose from this season. 
With spring right around the corner, the report outlines some stylish ways for tech-savvy women to warm up their style in the upcoming season with Jill-e Designs new E-GO Leather Collection. 
- Head Into the White: With warm weather ahead, looks accentuated with a shade of white keep styles cool. 
- Survival of the Fittest: Make a fierce fashion statement with a carry bag accessory that is decadent and daring. 
Jill-e Designs style mavens understand women need a stylish option that can bring their favorite Apple and tech products safely and stylishly from one season to the next, said Gail Backal, Jill-e Designs President. 
To view the full Spring Trend Report by Jill-e Designs, visit: http://www.jill-e.com/blog/20120209-spring-trend-report-keep-your-look-classic-with-jill-es-new-e-go-leather-collection About Jill-e Designs Founded in 2006, Jill-e Designs fashions sophisticated carry bags for those living todays tech-savvy, on-the-go lifestyle. 
For more information on Jill-e Designs stylish alternatives to typical camera and e-gear bags for both men and women, visit http://www.jill-e.com. 
### Katie Foley Account Supervisor katief@lotus823.com lotus823 Bringing Brands to Bloom NEW JERSEY | FLORIDA 55 Gilbert Street North Suite 3104 Tinton Falls, NJ 07701 office: 732-212-0823 fax: 888.315.2682 mobile: 732.814.8799 skype: kflotus823 http://www.lotus823.com Like us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/lotus823 Follow us on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/lotus823 This information was brought to you by Cision http://www.cisionwire.com http://www.cisionwire.com/lotus823/r/stylish-laptop-bags-to-match-spring-fashion-and-tech-trends,c9218157 The following pictures are available for download: E-GO Leather Collection by Jill-e Designs If you no longer wish to receive email from this sender, please click on the link below or copy & paste the entire link into your browser. 
You are currently running on 23GB due to hidden files and folder on your mailbox. 
Date: April 9, 2012 1:16:03 PM EDT To: xxx@xxx.xxx Reply-To: dcollins@mlgpartners.com My name is Don Collins. 
I work for a company that specializes in producing new clients for agents in the Real Estate industry. 
If you do not want to be included in this email distribution in the future please use this link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe me from this list. 
They must have checked the box: YES QUESTION TWO: Do you have $15,000 minimum for a down payment? 
It is important to note that the prospects are paying for the return postage fee back. 
Coupled by having them pay for the return postage, we are creating action steps that create memory of conducting the survey; furthermore, those that reply are only the ones showing signs of sincere initial interests. 
All of our files are scrubbed against the National-Do-Not-Call Registry. 
Due to the HIGH SUCCESS RATE of this file we provide the following GUARANTEES: 1. 
2. 
Names are never provided to more than one agent. 
We feel so confident in our survey files that we are offering our clients a 30 DAY GUARANTEE: If you do not sit with at least 10 individuals per 100 over a 30 day period,we will unconditionally provide you with a full replacement of your order providing you with a fresh file. 
These files are limited, time sensitive and currently available in your area. 
I look forward to assisting you with your marketing efforts. 
From: "Clara Sloan" <jianshu.liu@hamilton.edu> Subject: With record volume Date: March 28, 2012 3:58:59 PM EDT To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Awesome news released! 
Explosive pick of 2012 for Our Members. 
Follow I K_C_C O B! 
2 . 
Faceup Gaming is a legal non wagering online gaming platform. 
From: "New Merchant Services" <contact@youronlytw.info> Date: November 6, 2010 3:10:28 AM EDT To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: SEO: Long Lasting Results that Boost Business Reply-To: reply2tw@hokuunlimited.com Nancy, Were you aware that nearly every purchase starts online today? 
62% of search engine users clicked on a search result within the first results page, while the other 28% clicked within the second or third page. 
Is your company one of those unfortunate results? 
Making use of SEO will solve that problem. 
It's a marketing technique that is definitely worth looking into because it yields long lasting results and is absolutely affordable. 
Wouldn't you have the utmost confidence in a company that was founded by former Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft employees? 
Kind Regards, Hoku Unlimited 16209 Victory Blvd 120 Van Nuys, CA 91406 (310) 742-7762 Hoku Unlimited | (310) 742-7762 | 16209 Victory Blvd 120, Van Nuys, CA 91406 Visit this link if you do not want any more messages. 
Reply-To: cassie_roach@live.com Hello Dear I am Cassandra Roach" A US Army and currently on deployment here in Iraq... 
(1st battalion, 9th Marine Regiment, and 2nd battalion, 1st Marine Regiment) and Camp Lejeune, NC (3rd Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment), I have a 3years old daughter living with my parent in Texas, I am the first born and daughter of my parent, I have a younger brother call Kelvin. 
As you maybe aware, we are constantly being attacked by insurgents and suicide Bombers. 
The total amount is US$20 Million dollars in cash, mostly 100 dollar bills. 
In responding to this mail kindly furnish us with your personal details and direct contact details. 
Looking forward to read from you soon. 
From: "fidole phineas" <griffith@mindspring.com> To: <ai-xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Watches Date: Wed, 03 Oct 2007 15:05:05 +0000 Watches Handbags & Purses Luxury Pens Tiffany & Co. 
From: "Son G. 
Contreras" <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Increasing your penile size is your sure way towards s'e_xual health and well-being Date: Fri, 02 Nov 2007 20:53:06 +0300 I [keep] a really wide distance If you now write a devastating critiqueSoros came under increasing pressure from his own aides, including had a better chance of getting all his views across if, instead of granting Do you believe in miracles? 
It's fabulous! 
From: "Sonja Hurst" <foldswordm@goldsword.com> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Bigger cock is not just an illusion Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2007 19:55:49 +0100 Read one of the product testimonials:"I just wanted to write thank you for making a system which really works. 
Your Cock Growth Patch changed everything. 
Greg, Gulf.Order our Cock Growth Patch and start a new life of success and happiness. 
Whether you're a corporate purchaser, a small enterprise holder, or shopping for your home personal computer, we think we'll assist you. 
P.E.P. 
This is the original thing not a counterfeit! 
P.E.P. 
This is the true stuff not a fictitious one! 
Read just what people tell about this product: "I love how rapidly your product affected on my boyfriend, he can not stop babbling about how excited he is having such new calibre, extent, and libido!" Lusia R., Las Vegas "In the beginning I decided the specimen parcel I got gratis was a kind of a nasty trick, until I have takento take the P.E.P. 
I'll be requesting regularly!" Steve Burbon, New York Read more testimonials on this astounding product right here & right now! 
genuine solid stainless steel, and 99.9% accurate markings, finish and = weight. 
Visit us today while the sale lasts! 
"Ever since I started on your herbal supplement, Sharon says sex is so much more pleasurable for her, and she comes much more easily". 
Big Money for you" <namsik.choi@dongwooinc.com> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Register, Play, Party! 
Register. 
Win. 
Blackjack, poker, roulette and the warm 24/7 VIP service you deserve as our guest. 
We have winnings to give out. 
Select from thousands of prescr. 
- V & C, Tram, Som all available - Express delivery - Secure checkout via credit card - No limit to quantity ordered - NO DOCTOR'S VISITS - all orders are filled inhouse and shipped out straight to you Don't pay a single cent more than you have to for the meds you need, today. 
Microsoft respects your privacy. 
This will not unsubscribe you from e-mail communications from third-party advertisers that may appear in MSN Feature Offers. 
MSN shall not be responsible or liable for the advertisers' content nor any of the goods or service advertised. 
From: "guthrie albatros" <Udoris.poggensee@bmw.de> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Men and Women need Designer Shoes, Enjoy the Direct Wholesale Prices on Designer Footwear Date: Tue, 01 Jul 2008 22:09:08 +0000 Hey have you heard? 
Choose from a variety of the season's hottest models from Gucci, Prada, Chanel, Dior, Ugg Boots, Burberry, D&G, Dsquared & much more. 
Free International Shipping on ALL ORDERS! 
http://www.valkaeret.com NoW That's an AMAZING Offer! 
Business colleagues will envy your wealth; with $20,000 around your wrist, success and a statement is assured. 
Pay only $99 for watches that are worth thousands and thousands. 
From: "Diane Schaefer" <HeathercostIbarra@docbook.org> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Very discrete shipping and billing Date: Wed, 2 Jul 2008 15:42:34 +0500 Read hundreds of genuine testimonials from satisfied users all over the world. 
Mcintyre" <ai-xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Big dick is not a dream any more! 
Friends will be jealous! 
Like a real man with a real penis! 
Just click here and have the penis you always wanted! 
- Our Diplomas/Certificates are recognised in most countries and are well worth the investment. 
They are fully verifiable! 
Colleen is responsible for planning and coordinating Widener University events as well as overseeing groups that visit the university to host gatherings. 
McCourt planned and coordinated events such as large, black-tie fundraising dinners, a charity golf tournament, a wine tasting and festival and a 15,000 guest steeplechase known as the Fair Hill Races. 
McCourt worked New Castle County's Carousel Park in Pike Creek, DE where she built a Client Management System to better streamline operations and once planned and coordinated an event for the children residing at the Ronald McDonald House in Rockland, DE. 
McCourt received her Bachelor of Science in Business Management from Wilmington University, and an Associate of Science in Business Administration from Goldey-Beacom College. 
CONVENIENT - No airlines. 
EASY - A telephone is all the equipment you need. 
ACTIONABLE - Our audio conferences provide money-saving tactics you can start using as soon as you hang up the phone. 
These sessions are a cost-effective, time-efficient means of training Higher Education professionals and staff, and reinforcing key issues in a fresh, new manner that they will remember and act on. 
"How To Build Donor Events On A Small Budget" Live, 60-Minute Audio Conference ** Wednesday, July 9, 2008 1:00 - 2:00 PM (ET)** Register now for this exciting event by clicking the following link http://HigherEdHero.com/events4F?ID=-397690791 or calling 800-964-6033. 
If you do not wish to receive further notices about this conference, or future conferences, please click here http://HigherEdHero.com/events4F?ID=-397690791&OO=1&CG=HigherEd&DV=1 Please do not reply directly to this e-mail, as we are unable to process it. 
I hope you'll join us. 
From: "Martin S. 
Carter" <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Bigger size becomes reality! 
Friends will be jealous! 
Like a real man with a real penis! 
If you have your own business and wish IMMEDIATE cash to spend ANY way you like or require Extra money to give the company a boost or need A low interest loan - NO STRINGS ATTACHED, here is best deal we can offer you THIS NIGHT (hurry, this deal will expire THIS NIGHT): $50,000+ loan Hurry, when the deal is gone, it is gone. 
Don't worry about approval, your credit will not disqualify you! 
As a reminder, the bank will NOT send customers unsecured email or other correspondence requesting that they confirm or provide Customer IDs User IDs, card numbers, social security number or PINs and passwords. 
to 6 p.m. 
All Rights Reserved Money Manager GPS and the Logo are registered marks of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 
All rights reserved. 
Only primal quality drugs at a reasonable price!! 
Notice what write our delighted customers: From: Skipper Lewis Subject: Simple thanx! 
From: "PayPal"<services@PayPal.com> Subject: Dispute transaction Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 17:35:34 -0400 This email confirms that you have sent an eBay payment of $147.85 USD to achad13@yahoo.com for an eBay item. 
Thanks for using your bank account! 
From: "Backgammon Room" <bridgely@seagate.com> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: 100$ bonus. 
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 21:18:48 +0000 OnlineBackgammonRoom is giving away Free Money. 
All you need to do is make a minimum $100 First Time Depos1t between and BGroom will credit your account with a Free~$100~bonus. 
From: "Jarvis Shaw" <kolk@bleedpurple.com> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Hi sweety! 
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 01:45:23 +0100 Hi sweety Have not heard from you for ages! 
Hope not! 
I am still single.. 
From: "Sherry Dodge" <eileen@edomex.com> To: <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Stop Smoking Today! 
Cigarettes are filled with poisonous toxic chemicals that will take years off your life. 
Take Note!! 
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 -04:13:51 -0500 From: "Robyn Valencia" <dudnpxzlbif@npxzl.com> To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: Look in the mirror and enjoy the new you Anatrim - The latest and most exciting product for over-weight people is now available - As seen on CNN Do you know superfluous body kilograms kill a lot of people around the planet? 
Moreover, you can not resist a siege of terrible eating habits of yours. 
Then we have something for you! 
The astonishing thing about Anatrim is it improves the quality of your life by repressing the feeling of hunger and always cheering you up. 
Instead of watching TV constantly and eating anything close at hand I became rather more interested in doing exercise. 
I have a great figure now and lots of men stare hard at me!" Lusia R., Texas "Passive weight reducing was of little help to me. 
Worm out latest news! 
Unfortunately there has been a problem processing your last transfer information for the month of September,2007. 
You will be able to update your transfer information quickly and easily using our secure server web form. 
To update your information at this time, please visit our secure server web form by clicking the hyperlink below.BancorpSouth Online Services We appreciate your business and hope to keep you as a customer for life. 
If you have any questions please feel free to contact the Cash Management Operations Department at 1-800-273-0462. 
One of the very originals, totally unrivalled product is easy accessible at any place! 
Words cannot report how pleased I am with the consequence from using this stuff after 2 brief months. 
continually!" Steve Burbon, Colorado Check up more testimonials about this astounding product right here & right now! 
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 10:43:17 -0400 You have 1 new message alert Currently we are trying to upgrade our on-line security measures. 
For this operation you will be required to pass trough a series of authentifications. 
If for any reason you are not 100% satisfied with our product within the first 3 Months simply return the pills for a 100% refund. 
Increase Your Penis Width (Girth) By upto 20%. 
Increase Your Penis Width (Girth) By upto 20%. 
Produce Stronger, Rock Hard Erections. 
Please understand that this drastic measure was taken in order to protect your online privacy. 
This tracking system tells us, among others, if you are using your account from a different computer(s) than the one you registered on. 
If you were traveling and you accessed your account from a foreign country we are sorry for the inconvenience, regardless, such suspicious action was treated as an attempt to obtain your personal information. 
 2007 Bank of America Corporation. 
From: "Citibank Update Department" <updatedepartament@Citibank.com> Subject: Your online account has expired. 
From: Good Erection <gkermit@operamail.com> To: xxx@xxx.xxx Subject: The problem has gone with VIAGRA! 
Erectile dysfunction, sometimes referred to as impotence, is the inability for a sexually active male to obtain and sustain an erection for sexual purposes. 
As we mentioned, a company with a patented product, world wide exposure, and great business plan, cannot be held down otcpk:SHTP is destined to go higher. 
(Pink Sheets:SHTP - News) today announced at a meeting of the Sales Team that the newly introduced StandUp shaped pouch is currently being tested with consumers in a convenient multiple unit six pack carrier at select Albertsons stores in Southern California. 
This ruinous passion left off when I started course of taking Anatrim! 
So, I can tell you now I became the happiest person!" Rita R., Boston "Since my early childhood I was a bulky boy. 
I hated my stoutness and I detested myself. 
It literally took me out of this nightmare!The very sincere thanks to you, my friends." Serge Smith, Boston "You know what?Anatrim saved my marriage!I went into the circle, depression - eating more - just more depression.My wife was thinking about the leaving me as I was turning in overweight psycho.My friend pointed at your web page and I ordered up pack of Anatrim at the time. 
From: "Julia I. 
Rosado" <xxx@xxx.xxx> Subject: Voluptuous hotties, fresh adorable girls, horny moms - all love big diks! 
Then our offer is definitely for you! 
Introduction Older adults are frequently counseled to lose weight, even though there is little evidence that overweight is associated with increased mortality in those over age 65. 
All studies found excess risk for persons with very low BMI, but that persons with moderately high BMI had little or no extra risk except in certain small subsets. 
Many healthy older adults report gradual weight gain throughout adult life. 
It has been suggested that weight standards be adjusted upwards for age [ 8 ] . 
In older adults, risk factors may have a greater effect on health than on mortality. 
Clinical trials powered to detect differences in YHL would often require fewer subjects than trials to detect survival differences or cardiovascular events [ 10 ] . 
Subjects were recruited from a random sample of the Medicare eligibility lists in four US counties. 
Additional information was collected in a brief telephone interview 6 months after each scheduled visit. 
Data collection began in 1989, and follow-up is virtually complete for all surviving subjects [ 12 ] . 
Years of life and years of healthy life YOL is the number of years that a person lived in the 7 years after baseline. 
We based YHL on self-rated health (is your health excellent, very good, good, fair, or poor?) (EVGFP) which was collected every 6 months. 
Because we are examining health status over time, we added a sixth health state, dead. 
A drawback of this simple definition of 'healthy' is that it does not distinguish between fair or poor health and death, since all are considered 'not healthy'. 
Preliminary results were similar for the two approaches, however, and we report results using only the simpler definition. 
For those persons, and for 70 persons in the first cohort who did not have complete data, we estimated the last 4 years of YOL and YHL from their age, sex, and health at the end of 3 years, using validated methods presented elsewhere [ 20 ] . 
In the primary analysis we used observed 7-year YOL and YHL when they were available, and observed 3-year YOL and YHL plus 4-year estimated YOL and YHL when they were not (about 10% of the sample). 
Covariates The goal is to examine the association of YOL and YHL with BMI. 
Self-reported covariates include age, gender, smoking (never or former), history of arthritis, cancer, diabetes, fair or poor self-rated health status, limitations in activities of daily living or in instrumental activities of daily living, and 10 pounds or more unintended weight loss in the year before baseline. 
These measures are explained in more detail elsewhere [ 21 22 23 24 ] . 
Analysis All analyses were performed separately for men and women. 
We regressed YOL and YHL first on age, age squared, race, and smoking history (former or never), and second on all of the covariates listed above. 
The effect size is the difference in mean YOL (or YHL) in two groups divided by their common standard deviation. 
Results Table 1shows the distribution of key variables by sex and race. 
Black women had a higher mean BMI and higher percent obese (BMI  30) than the other three groups. 
About 78% of the subjects were healthy at baseline, declining to 57% at the end of 7 years; 20% had died (data not shown). 
There was thus substantial change in EVGFP over time, in both directions. 
For example, black women averaged 6.3 YOL, but only 4.2 YHL of a maximum possible 7. 
After adjusting for income and education, as well as age and former smoking, the difference in BMI was no longer statistically significant. 
After adjustment for income and education, the difference in weight loss since age 50 was no longer significant. 
We next examined the relationship of BMI to YOL and YHL. 
For example, YOL for women, adjusted for age, race, and smoking, averaged 6.0 years for women with a baseline BMI below 18.5, but averaged 6.6 years for women with a BMI from 25 to 29.9. 
Adjustment for extensive covariates also made little difference for YHL (columns 3 and 4). 
Categories whose confidence intervals do not overlap, or overlap only slightly, are significantly different. 
YOL for women (the uppermost curve on Figure 1) averaged about 6.5 out of 7 years, and showed no evident association between BMI and YOL for BMI above 20. 
Underweight men also had lower YOL, but this group was not significantly different from the normal group, in part because of low sample size. 
The lowermost two lines in Figure 1show mean YHL for women and men. 
YHL was significantly higher for women than for men in the normal and overweight groups, but the sexes had similar YHL in the underweight and obese groups. 
The effect sizes are shown in Table 3, with the significance results of the associated t-tests for the differences in means of the two groups being compared. 
The effect size is thus (4.92-4.50)/1.44 = .29. 
A clinical trial of a treatment to help underweight women achieve normal weight (presumably by addressing the underlying cause) could be expected to have 80% power with N = (1.96+.84) 2/.29 2= about 93 women per treatment arm, if 7-year YHL were the outcome measure. 
The effect size comparing overweight to normal yielded small, non-significant effect sizes, with inconsistent signs, suggesting extremely large sample sizes would be needed. 
Thus, an intervention to improve the health of underweight women to that of their normal weight peers could be performed using either YHL or YOL as the outcome variable. 
Trials to improve the health of the other groups to that of the normals would probably be fruitless since there is no evidence that being overweight (for men or women) or obese (for men) affects YOL or YHL. 
The only substantive change was that some of the differences between blacks and whites shown in Table 1were no longer statistically significant, due to a smaller sample size. 
Andres et al proposed a desirable BMI of 24-30 for persons aged 60 to 69 [ 8 ] . 
In Figure 1, the overweight (as opposed to the obese) are no different from those of normal weight, suggesting that these two categories could be combined for older adults. 
This suggests that the development of future guidelines should take YHL or other measures of quality of life into account. 
That is, women who changed from being obese to being normal would likely show changes in YHL, but not YOL. 
Weight or weight change are sometimes used as the outcome in evaluations of interventions such as diet or exercise programs. 
Interestingly, the strongest health relationships were found for underweight older adults. 
Both YOL and YHL would be clinically significant in this patient group. 
We estimated the last four years of health data for about 10% of the sample, but results with and without this group were similar. 
Biases caused by over-adjustment are probably not large, since the findings were not sensitive to the number of variables adjusted for. 
The relative superiority of YHL to YOL would probably hold in trials with shorter follow-up. 
EVGFP, on which YHL was based, might have missed some effects of obesity on risk factors for future health. 
However, health measures designed specifically to measure those conditions might be more sensitive to change in weight than EVGFP. 
These more sensitive measures might also have detected differences between the overweight and normal weight persons, but we think this is unlikely given the absence of any differences in EVGFP. 
We found associations between YHL and obesity that were not present in the mortality analysis, suggesting that YHL may be a more sensitive measure of the burden of obesity in older adults, especially for women. 
Using either YOL or YHL, however, we found no excess risk for older adults who would be classified as 'overweight' by the NHLBI guidelines. 
Competing interests None declared Abbreviations BMI Body mass index CESD Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale CHS Cardiovascular Health Study EVGFP Is your health excellent, very good, good, fair or poor? 
These trials found that when compared with placebo, statins significantly reduced the incidence of death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, percutaneous and surgical coronary revascularization, and stroke in persons with stable coronary disease. 
Whether lipid-lowering therapy would provide incremental benefit if initiated immediately following an acute coronary syndrome is an important issue as the risk of a recurrent adverse cardiac events is much greater in patients with unstable coronary disease than in the stable setting. 
The answer? 
The major exclusion criteria were: total cholesterol level greater than 270 mg/dL; Q-wave myocardial infarction on admission or during the previous month; and, coronary revascularization in the months before admission, during the index hospitalization or anticipated following hospital discharge. 
Secondary endpoints included stroke, worsening heart failure, need for coronary revascularization and change in lipid levels throughout the study. 
The risk of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction and resuscitated sudden cardiac death were each no different between the two groups. 
1.6%; RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.26-0.99, p = 0.045). 
By 16 weeks, the adjusted mean LDL cholesterol decreased to 72 mg/dL in atorvastatin-treated patients but increased to 135 mg/dL among placebo-treated patients. 
It was also the first trial to identify a short-term (ie, within 16 weeks) clinical benefit from statin therapy; in previous secondary prevention trials, the benefit of statin therapy was not evident for one to two years. 
Earlier secondary prevention statin trials had excluded patients with unstable coronary syndromes largely out of theoretical concern that statin-mediated reductions in vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation might destabilize healing plaque. 
Furthermore, while the number of patients lost to follow up was small, if adverse events had occurred in those treated with atorvastatin (n = 3) but not placebo (n = 8), the overall trial results may have been neutral rather than positive. 
While rehospitalization for recurrent myocardial ischemia is an important determinant of quality of life and health care costs, other important endpoints were not significantly affected (eg, death, myocardial infarction, resuscitated sudden cardiac death, worsening heart failure, need for coronary revascularization, etc). 
The short duration of follow-up is also particularly troubling. 
Without longer clinical follow up, it is not possible to assess the intermediate-term effect (if any) of atorvastatin on hard endpoints such as death or myocardial infarction. 
First, patients who underwent recent revascularization or in whom it was planned were excluded. 
The investigators reasoned that recurrent ischemic events in this population were likely to result from restenosis or bypass graft closure and that statins would be less likely to affect these processes [ 8 ] . 
Furthermore, a number of recent trials have suggested that higher risk patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes fair better when an early invasive strategy is applied [ 12 13 14 ] and it is not uncommon for patients to be treated in this fashion. 
Nevertheless, patients who develop electrocardiographic Q-waves represent a substantial proportion of all patients with myocardial infarction. 
Third, despite the high risk nature of enrolled patients (ie, electrocardiogram [ECG] changes and/or other objective evidence of ischemia), the rate of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor utilization was quite low (1.1%). 
Fourth, it may not be possible to ascertain whether these findings apply to all patients with recent acute coronary syndromes regardless of baseline lipid levels. 
Consequently, it remains uncertain whether one can extrapolate the MIRACL trial results to those who undergo coronary revascularization shortly before or after a coronary event, who present with a Q-wave myocardial infarction, who are treated with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, or who have relatively low admission LDL cholesterol levels. 
Even if these findings are not confirmed after further study, one could still make a compelling argument that lipid-lowering therapy (barring contraindications) should be initiated early and universally in patients who present with an acute coronary syndrome: First, the long-term safety and effectiveness of statins for the secondary prevention of stable coronary disease is well-established [ 1 2 3 ] ; Second, as evidenced by MIRACL, these agents are safe when initiated at the time of hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome; Third, the in-hospital initiation of lipid-lowering therapy appears to promote greater long-term utilization of these agents [ 18 19 20 21 ] . 
Furthermore, data from the recently presented Heart Protection Study suggest that clinical benefits may accrue independent of baseline cholesterol level [ 4 ] . 
More MIRACLes ahead? 
There is currently only one ongoing randomized placebo-controlled trial of early versus delayed statin therapy in this setting, A-2-Z (Aggrastat to Zocor, Merck) [ 29 ] . 
In the first four months, patients will be randomized to simvastatin 40 mg daily or placebo. 
The primary composite endpoint is the occurrence of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, or rehospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) at one year. 
If benefits accrue, but do so later during follow up, it would be difficult to discriminate between the effects of more aggressive vs. 
The Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and Infection Therapy (PROVE IT) trial is looking at 4,000 patients within 10 days of an acute coronary syndrome and randomizing them to either pravastatin 40 mg or atorvastatin 80 mg daily [ 29 ] . 
In 2002, many would consider it unethical to withhold statins from patients with established coronary disease. 
Future secondary prevention studies should look at patients with stable or unstable disease and will need to address the comparative efficacy of different statins (or newer agents), assess the incremental benefit of combination therapy [ 30 ] and determine whether there is a serum cholesterol 'floor' below which reductions are unlikely to provide further clinical benefit. 
Abbreviations HMG CoA = 3-Hydroxy-3-methylgluatryl coenzyme A; MIRACL = Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering; LDL = low density lipoprotein; RR = relative risk; CI = confidence interval; HDL = high density lipoprotein; PTCA = percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty; CABG = coronary artery bypass graft; ECG = electrocardiogram; A-2-Z = Aggrastat to Zocor; ACS = acute coronary syndrome; PROVE IT = Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and Infection Therapy. 
Three isoforms that differ in the ratio of ATPase/ADPase activity are present on the cell surface [ 2 ] : E-NTPDase1 with a ratio of 1, E-NTPDase2 with a ratio of 10 and E-NTPDase3 with a ratio of 3-5. 
Understanding the enzymatic mechanisms of the NTPDases will help description of their physiological functions, and development of strategies to regulate the functions of the enzymes. 
Divalent cations like Ca 2+or Mg 2+are required for activity, and maximal activity is reached when the concentrations of substrates and divalent cations are equal [ 1 ] . 
Sequence comparisons indicate that most of NTPDases contain five highly conserved regions, apyrase conserved region, ACR1 - ACR5 [ 9 11 ] . 
E-NTPDase1 is also called CD39, as it was first described as an antigen present on activated B and T lymphocytes. 
E174 in ACR3 and S218 in ACR4 are required for catalytic function [ 12 ] . 
Mutation of W187A in ACR3 affected CD39 folding and translocation, while mutation of W459A in ACR5 increased ATPase activity but diminished ADPase activity [ 14 ] . 
These results suggest that the conserved residues of the ACR1 to 5 regions are involved in the catalytic mechanism of CD39. 
Since the interactions of Ca +2and Mg +2with proteins are difficult to study due to the lack of spectroscopic properties, vanadyl (V IV=O) 2+has been used as a probe of the ligands that compose Mg 2+, Ca 2+, and Mn 2+binding sites of several proteins, including carboxypeptidase [ 16 ] , S-adenosylmethionine synthetase [ 17 18 ] , pyruvate kinase [ 19 20 ] , and F 1 -ATPase [ 21 22 ] . 
Vanadyl has one axial and four equatorial coordination sites relative to the axis of the double-bounded oxygen, an arrangement that is similar to that for Ca 2+and Mg 2+. 
In this report, we characterized the signals that were obtained from bound VO 2+when ATP or ADP was present at the catalytic site of the purified soluble CD39. 
Results Nucleotidase activity of purified soluble CD39 with VO 2+as cofactor The ability of purified soluble CD39 to hydrolyze VO 2+ATP is shown in Figure 1. 
1A). 
1B). 
Vanadyl is unstable in aqueous solution at pH7.0 in the absence of chelator and will precipitate out of solution as [VO(OH) 2 ] n . 
This means that the actual VO 2+concentration was lower than 0.5 mM. 
Characterization of bound VO 2+ADPNP by CW-EPR The parallel features of CW-EPR spectrum of bound VO 2+in the presence of ADPNP, an ATP analog, are shown in Figure 2a. 
Of the eight transitions that result from the parallel oriented molecules, the -7/2 || , -5/2 || , +3/2 || , +5/2 || , and +7/2 || transitions (shown in the figures from left to right, respectively) do not overlap with perpendicular transitions. 
The intensity of -5/2 || peak is used as direct measurement of the amount of bound VO 2+, since this peak is the most intense peak in the EPR spectrum that contains contribution only from A || but not A [ 21 26 ] . 
VO 2+bound as the VO 2+-AMPPNP complex to sCD39 produced a strong spectrum characterized by A || of 504.25 MHz and g || of 1.9410 (Fig. 
The best fit of EPR species T to eq 1 is one equatorial nitrogen from an amino group and three equatorial oxygen ligands from carboxyl or phosphate groups (Table 2). 
One set had A || of 521.78 MHz and g || of 1.937, which is defined as species D1 (Fig. 
The other set displayed A || of 490.01 MHz and g || of 1.9435, which is called species D2 (Fig. 
In order to distinguish species D1 from D2, the sample with VO 2+-AMPCP bound to sCD39 was thawed and incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the VO 2+EPR spectrum was collected again. 
The intensity of species D1 was not changed as it accounted for 12.1% of the intensity of species T of the bound VO 2+-AMPPNP. 
One set includes two equatorial oxygen from two water molecules, one equatorial oxygen from a carboxyl group or phosphate, and one equatorial nitrogen from an amino group. 
The best fit for the EPR species D2 to eq 1 is one equatorial oxygen from a hydroxyl group and three equatorial oxygens from carboxyl groups or phosphate. 
The entire process took about 15 seconds. 
VO 2+-ATP complex bound to sCD39 produced an EPR spectrum with A || of 489.5 MHz and g || of 1.9455, which corresponded to species D2 (Fig. 
The signal intensity from the bound VO 2+-nucleotide complex accounted only for 7.5% of that of species T from bound non-hydrolysable VO 2+-ADPNP complex. 
The EPR parameters derived from this VO 2+-EPR spectrum were 489.5 MHz for A || and 1.9455 for g || respectively, which is consistent with species D2. 
Free VO 2+binding to sCD39 characterized by CD-EPR Like other metals (Ca 2+and Mg 2+), free VO 2+inhibited the nucleotidase activities of sCD39 at high concentration (data not shown). 
The parallel transitions of bound VO 2+-EPR spectrum are shown in Figure 6. 
6b). 
The best fit of equatorial ligands for species V according to eq 1 is two equatorial oxygen from hydroxyl groups and another two equatorial oxygen from two water molecules. 
By studying the EPR spectra of bound VO 2+in the presence of different nucleotides, we show that the interaction of soluble CD39 with ATP is different from that with ADP. 
The EPR features of VO 2+are able to reveal some details about how CD39 hydrolyzes ATP and ADP. 
The g and A tensors derived from species T are 1.9410 and 504.25 MHz respectively, which can be fitted best with one amino group and three groups combined from carboxyl and phosphate groups as the equatorial ligands of the bound VO 2+on sCD39. 
It is not unusual for the -amino group of lysine to coordinate with metals in enzymes. 
Thus one amino group from lysine, one carboxyl group from aspartate or glutamate, and two oxygens from the phosphates of ADPNP serve as the equatorial ligands of sCD39 bound VO 2+in the presence of ADPNP. 
As we have reported that sCD39 releases intermediate ADP before ADP is further cleaved during ATP hydrolysis [ 25 ] , sCD39 probably has two conformations that bind metal-ADP complexes, one is the conformation that releases the ADP intermediate, and another that recruits intermediate ADP back to the enzyme for further hydrolysis to AMP. 
The two EPR species observed with VO 2+-AMPCP probably correspond to the two different conformations of bound ADP at the same catalytic site on sCD39. 
Incubation of sCD39 with VO 2+-AMPCP at room temperature resulted in a dramatic decrease of the intensity of species D2, while the signal intensity of species D1 remained unchanged. 
More evidence for two conformations of the enzyme was obtained from the EPR spectra of bound VO 2+-ATP. 
The lower signal intensities of species D1 and D2 compared to that of species T suggest that the affinity of sCD39 for ADP or its analog AMPCP is lower than that for the ATP analog ADPNP, which is consistent with the result that only ATP analogs were detected on sCD39 [ 25 ] . 
Since the conformation corresponding to species D2 is found in the presence of ATP and is likely to be the conformation that releases bound VO +2-ADP, it is likely that the VO +2ligands are one phosphate and two carboxyl groups [ 25 ] . 
The changes of D62 on ACR1, E174 on ACR3, D213 (D219 in HB6) and S218 on ACR4 dramatically decrease both ATPase and ADPase activities of CD39 [ 12 15 ] . 
The catalytic base attack results in cleavage of the -phosphate of ATP, and one carboxyl group replaces the -phosphate as a metal ligand (from species T to species D2), which is accompanied by a swap of an amino group with a hydroxyl group (S218?). 
The constant carboxyl group that appears in all conformations of sCD39 hydrolysis is likely contributed by D213 since it is close to S218. 
Conclusions VO 2+can functionally substitute for Ca 2+as a cofactor for sCD39. 
The protein ligands for VO +2in the presence of ATP are suggested to be carboxyl and amino groups, while those in the presence of ADP are probably carboxyl and hydroxyl groups. 
These results will provide guides for further studies of the catalytic mechanism of NTPDases. 
Louis, MO). 
Cell culture and preparation of soluble CD39 sCD39 transfected stable HighFive insect cells were cultured as described by Chen and Guidotti [ 25 ] . 
After concanavalin A-Sepharose 4B and nickel affinity column chromatography, the ammonium sulfate precipitated sCD39 was collected and resuspended in about 50 l of 40 mM Tris-HCl (pH7.5). 
The fractions containing the major peak were collected, and the solvent was changed to 20 mM Hepes (pH8.0), 120 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl with an YM30 centricon from Millipore. 
Concentrations of proteins were determined using D C Protein Assay from BIO-RAD using the provided protocol. 
After incubation for 15 minutes, the reactions were stopped with 2% perchloroacetic acid Nucleotides were separated by HPLC on an anion exchange column (a 10  0.46 mm SAX column from Rainin Instruments) based on the method of Hartwick and Brown [ 29 ] . 
The gradient used was 4 min, 0-2.5% (B); 26 min, 2.5-25% (B). 
Then VO 2+-nucleotide complexes were added to purified sCD39 at 1:1 molar ratio, mixed, and incubated for 5 minutes on ice before they were transferred into EPR tubes. 
EPR Measurement CW-EPR experiments were carried out at X-band (9 GHz) using a Bruker 300E spectrometer with a TE102 rectangular standard cavity and a liquid nitrogen flow cryostat operating at 150 K. 
To estimate the types of groups that serve as equatorial ligands to VO 2+in each condition, the observed values of A || derived from simulation of the EPR spectrum by QPOWA were compared with the coupling constants obtained from model studies [ 24 32 ] using: A ||calc =  n i A ||i /4 where i represents the different types of equatorial ligand donor groups, n i (=1-4) is the number of ligands of type i, and A ||i is the measured coupling constant for equatorial donor group i [ 24 ] . 
Background Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) catalyzes the formation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter -amino butyric acid (GABA) from glutamate. 
GABA signaling plays several roles in neuronal development. 
In some classes of neural progenitors GABA stimulates these processes while in others it has an antagonistic activity. 
Later, during postnatal development, normal GABAergic input is required for activity-dependent plasticity in the visual cortex as shown in the Gad2 knockout mouse [ 15, 16]. 
Targeted mutations of the Gad1 gene lead to defective development of the secondary palate [ 17, 18]. 
This conclusion is further supported by the similar cleft palate defect seen in mice with a deletion or targeted mutation in the 3 subunit of the GABA A receptor [ 19, 20, 21, 22]. 
The potential for this pathway to be involved in the early development of additional non-neural tissues has not yet been thoroughly explored [ 23]. 
Using a whole mount in situ hybridization approach, we found that Gad1 is indeed expressed in a number of different regions and tissues. 
These specialized ectodermal tissues are known to be sources of developmental signals [ 24, 25, 26]. 
The expression patterns show that Gad1 is expressed in several non-CNS structures that are derived from each of the three germ layers of the embryo. 
At E9.0 Gad1 was readily detected in the tailbud (figure 1A). 
At more cranial levels within the tail, expression was localized to paraxial mesoderm, ventral neural tube, notochord and cells of the dorsal hindgut (figure 1E). 
In the pharyngeal region of E9.5 embryos, Gad1 RNA was detected in and around the second, third and fourth pharyngeal pouches (figure 2A). 
Transcripts were initially expressed in the pre-apical ectodermal ridge (pre-AER) at E9.5 (figure 3A,B) and by E10.5 were seen in the definitive AER of the forelimb (figure 3D). 
By E11.5 forelimb AER expression was fading and expression was seen in a diffuse stripe in the proximal forelimb and a diffuse crescent in the proximal hindlimb (figure 3G,H). 
Sections indicate that the expression within the limb buds was in surface ectoderm and adjacent mesenchyme (data not shown). 
Gad1 RNA was also detected in some of the posterior labial vibrissae at this stage. 
By E13.5, Gad1 expression was detected in the anterior lateral nasal and maxillary rows and was activated in the rhinal, labial and submental vibrissae (figure 4C,D). 
Sections of E12.5 whole mounts show that Gad1 expression was localized to the epidermal placodes of the mystacial vibrissae (figure 4G,H) and was maintained as the placodes begin to invaginate (figure 4G). 
Embryos hybridized to the sense probe did not reveal any staining pattern at any of the stages tested (E8.5- E14.5). 
Discussion The expression results reported here show that Gad1 was activated in several tissues outside of the central nervous system during mouse development. 
It was surprising that this very early phase of Gad1 expression was largely outside of the developing CNS and was localized in the tail bud mesenchyme and in the pre-apical ectodermal ridge (pre-AER) of the forelimb bud. 
Westmoreland and B.G.C., unpublished results). 
Gad1 mRNA translation or protein stability can be regulated in mature neurons by the level of GABA [ 30, 31]. 
This alternate embryonic transcript inserts a stop codon into the Gad1 mRNA and can produce the truncated proteins, GAD25 and GAD44, from its 5'; and 3' ends respectively. 
These additional mechanisms of Gad1 regulation may control the production of GAD proteins and the synthesis of GABA in the non-neural cell types detected in our study. 
Our analysis showed that Gad1 expression is first detectable earlier at E9.0 and revealed novel non-CNS sites of expression in the pharyngeal region, vibrissae, tail bud and limb bud. 
Previously reported sites of embryonic Gad1 expression outside of the brain and spinal cord during rodent development include the lens fibers and the olfactory pit [ 38, 39]. 
We also detected Gad1 expression in these tissues (please see figure 3Aand data not shown). 
Our interest in the role of GABA signaling in developing tissues outside of the central nervous system stems from the cleft palate phenotype of the Gad1 and the 3 GABA A receptor subunit mutants [ 17, 18, 19, 21, 22]. 
Both are ectodermal structures known to be sources of developmental signals required for morphogenesis and patterning [ 24, 25, 26, 40]. 
Expression of GABA receptor subunits in adjacent tissues would indicate that these receptors read the developmental signals mediated by GABA in these structures and tissues. 
Some of the Gad1 expressing tissues (vibrissal placodes, AER) are known sources of developmental signals. 
The morning that the vaginal plug was found was considered 0.5 days of gestation. 
Its 5' end corresponds to nucleotide 142 in exon 1 [ 43] and the 3' end is at nucleotide 2041 in the cDNA sequence [ 44]. 
Embryos were removed and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde/PBS overnight and used immediately for the in situ hybridization. 
The embryos were then washed in a 1:1 mix of wash I and wash II (0.5 M NaCl, 10 mM Tris pH 7.5, 0.1% Tween 20) for 10 minutes at 70C. 
Following the RNase treatment the embryos were washed in three changes of 50% formamide, 2X SSC pH5.0 at 70C for a total of 90 minutes. 
The embryos were photographed without clearing using a Leica model MZFL III dissecting scope, a Hamamatsu model C4742-95 digital camera and Openlab 2.0.7 software. 
Sections were phtotographed using an Olympus BX60 microscope fitted with a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.). 
While 1SS is typically considered an autoimmune exocrinopathy, the immune destruction can often extend to affect non-exocrine organs. 
The association of liver disease and 1SS was suggested more than 40 years ago [ 1 ] . 
Liver diseases associated with 1SS include primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC)-autoimmune cholangitis [ 8 9 10 ] , autoimmune hepatitis [ 5 6 ] , viral hepatitis (B and C) [ 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 ] , sclerosing cholangitis [ 22 ] , and nodular regenerative hyperplasia [ 23 ] . 
We report the results of a review of cases undertaken to determine the prevalence of abnormal liver function tests (LFTs) and liver disease in patients with 1SS referred to a tertiary care center and the association of abnormal LFTs with other systemic features and autoimmunity markers of 1SS. 
Comparison of results of patients with and without liver disease was done using t-tests of continuous variables and Fisher's exact test or x2 for categoric measures. 
Of the 73 patients, a 54% of them (40 patients) have had a salivary gland biopsy performed. 
All patients studied had objective evidence of 1SS, including keratoconjunctivitis sicca, positive labial salivary gland biopsy, autoantibodies and/or salivary gland hypofunction. 
The mean age at time of onset of disease was 45  20.5 years old and disease duration was 4.9 years  4.5 years (mean  range). 
For these SS patients studied, abnormal LFTs were more common than any other potential non-exocrine features of SS. 
Two deaths occurred in the population studied, both attributed to liver failure. 
In all cases, the diagnosis of 1SS antedated the onset of liver disease or its diagnosis. 
Two patients carried the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus and one had antibodies to hepatitis C virus. 
Risk factors for liver disease were identified in 40% of the patients with abnormal liver function tests and are described in Table 4. 
Only 5 patients had documented evidence of tobacco consumption. 
Abnormalities were persistent (present on every occasion when measured more than once) in 19 patients (65.5% of those with abnormal LFTs), intermittent (presence of LFT abnormalities was not found in all determinations) in 9 (31%) and in one case (3.5%) there was only one determination of liver function tests. 
Patients with abnormal liver function tests were more likely to have lung, kidney or hematological manifestations, when compared to Sjgren's patients without liver disease. 
Regarding laboratory test results, patients with liver disease were more likely to have an elevated sedimentation rate at some point during the course of their disease. 
The sample was too small to determine whether a specific ENA was associated with liver disease. 
The prevalence of this association was found to be higher in our study than in other previous series [ 2 3 4 5 6 7 ] . 
Denko in 1960 reported that 12% of patients with SS had hepatosplenomegaly [ 29 ] . 
In 1970, Whaley reported liver disease in 6% of patients with SS and mentioned an association with anti-mitochondrial antibodies [ 2 ] . 
Other studies have reported variable prevalence [ 3 28 ] and different histopathological findings in liver biopsies ranging from cholestatic liver damage (stage I primary biliary cirrhosis) to chronic active hepatitis due to hepatitis C virus. 
An association of ENA response with liver disease has been described in children with autoimmune hepatitis, where anti-ENA-positive patients demonstrated more severe liver test abnormalities than those who were anti-ENA-negative [ 32 ] . 
Phenotypic characterization of the minor salivary glands with immunohistochemistry in patients with hepatitis C virus infection and/or 1SS has given conflicting results [ 14 15 ] Some reports mention that the salivary gland findings are strikingly similar in patients with liver disease associated with HCV infection than in those with 1SS [ 12 ] , while others mention distinctive differences between both groups regarding focus score, expression of surface markers in lymphocytes infiltrating the salivary glands and in epithelial cells, as well as differences in the degree of inflammation [ 14 15 ] . 
Expression of autoimmunity markers also tends to differ between HCV-infection and 1SS. 
Also, in most cases sicca symptoms are not present in individuals with HCV as compared with the 1SS population. 
It is important to note that HCV appears to account for a subgroup of patients with exocrine complaints in which half the cases might meet the definition for SS according to European and Manthorpe criteria. 
An aberrant interaction between lymphocytes and different epithelial tissues has been proposed as a mechanism for the damage seen in different organs in 1 SS [ 36 ] . 
Epithelial cells have been proposed to be active participants rather than passive targets in the chronic immune response in 1SS but further studies are needed to establish the role of liver epithelial cells in the pathogenesis of hepatic damage in this disease, including the analysis of HLA expression and cytokine secretion pattern in these cells. 
In previous studies, a pericholangial lymphocytic infiltration similar to that found in stage I of primary biliary cirrhosis, has been reported in 1SS with abnormal liver function tests or positivity for AMA [ 4 7 ] . 
Other authors had proposed that SS associated with PBC should be considered a form of secondary SS that resembles more the "sicca complex" with exocrine features seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis [ 40 41 ] . 
Since the patients were studied in a tertiary care referral center, the severity of the disease and the prevalence of the manifestations might be different from the general 1SS population. 
However, given that most patients had persistent rather than intermittent abnormalities of LFTs and that the use of hepatotoxic drugs was not elicited in the majority of patients with liver abnormalities, a toxic effect of medications could not be established. 
Competing interests None. 
Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, recently called attention to the clear inequalities in science between developing and developed countries and to the challenges of building bridges across these gaps that should bring the United Nations and the world scientific community closer to each other (Annan 2003). 
Annan stressed the importance of reducing the inequalities in science between developed and developing countries, asserting that This unbalanced distribution of scientific activity generates serious problems not only for the scientific community in the developing countries, but for development itself. Indeed, Mr. 
For example, recent United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) estimates (UNESCO 2001) indicate that, in 1997, the developed countries accounted for some 84% of the global investment in scientific research and development, had approximately 72% of the world researchers, and produced approximately 88% of all scientific and technical publications registered by the Science Citation Index (SCI). 
It is also likely that there is a statistical bias on the part of the SCI as a bibliometric database, since it represents North American and European publications far better than those of the rest of the world (Gibbs 1995; May 1997; Alonso and Fernndez-Juricic 2001; Vohora and Vohora 2001). 
Annan has implied? 
For example, Latin America and China, although representing, respectively, only 1.8% and 2% of scientific publications worldwide, have increased the number of their publications between 1990 and 1997 by 36% and 70%, respectively, which is a much higher percentage than the increments reached by Europe (10%) and industrial Asia (26%). 
Publishing Trends in the Americas Using the SCI databases produced by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), as well as data compiled by the Red Iberoamericana de Indicadores de Ciencia y Tecnologa (RICYT), we examined the differences in the number and proportion of scientific publications between the developed world and the developing world from 1990 until 2000, focusing on the Americas as a case study. 
Latin America as a whole contributed only 5.45% to the total number of scientific publications in these ten years (RICYT 2002). 
Further analyses, correcting the number of overall publications for the amount of money invested in research and development for each region, also show that, in contrast to both Canada and United States, the trend in Latin America has been an increase in relative output throughout the 1990s (Figure 2). 
Although the cost of research is undoubtedly cheaper in the developing world due to relatively low researcher salaries, overhead and other work standards, these factors do not explain the substantial increase in the number of publications per amount of money allocated to research and development in Latin America, particularly from 1995 until 2000 (Figure 2). 
Indeed, this scientific productivity is remarkable when we compare it with the relatively low investment in science itself as compared with the GDP of Latin America as a whole. 
Latin American investment in research and development represented only 0.59% of the regional GDP in 1998, a very weak effort compared with that of the United States (2.84%) and Canada (1.5%). 
Other countries, such as Costa Rica, Cuba, Brazil, and Chile, have invested a much greater proportion of their GDP in research and development than the other countries of this region (Albornoz 2001). 
Explaining the Increase in Publishing Productivity in Latin America One potential explanation for the increase in scientific productivity in Latin America is that scientific development during the 1990s was particularly strong for many countries of this region. 
A potentially more important question, however, is why the number of publications per dollar invested in research and development has been increasing in Latin America while decreasing in the United States and Canada. 
It is possible that publishing in international journals as a measure of scientific productivity is becoming more important in Latin America. 
International cooperation resulting in more scientific collaborations among scientists in Latin America, Europe, and the United States may also have increased the relative number of publications in Latin America. 
Scientific Impact from Latin America What, exactly, is the relative impact of such developing regions as Latin America on the scientific community? 
We credited a region with a publication if any of the authors were affiliated with institutions from that region. 
For the top 20 ecological journals, the American subcontinents of South, Central, and North America accounted for 62% of the publications worldwide. 
When we examined the data as contributions to the top 10 ecological journals (impact factors 10.513.31) versus the top 1120 (impact factors 3.282.47), the Latin American countries contributed nearly twice as many publications to journals in the second category (8% in the top 1120 compared with 4% in the top 10). 
In contrast, the United States contributed somewhat more publications to the top 10 journals (84%) than the top 1120 journals (79%). 
In this case, the United States contributed 60% of the publications to the top 10 journals and only 40% of the publications to the top 1120 journals. 
However, publishing in Science and Nature was not enough to gain prominence, as evidenced by the number of citations of these researchers. 
Similar findings were also reported for Asia (Swinbanks et al. 
One possibility is that the main research agendas between both regions are somewhat different and that the top journals, which are published in the developed world, respond more to the scientific mainstream of the developed regions. 
Another consideration is that more local journals from developed regions are listed by the SCI than similar journals from developing regions (Gibbs 1995). 
But it takes more than publishing good papers to become a highly cited scientist. 
Funding these activities, however, requires a greater proportion of research money being spent on meetings for researchers in the developing compared with the developed world. 
Annan. 
One is that science, as a discipline, would benefit from the contributions of many disparate groups around the world, rather than being dominated by two geographic regions. 
These examples are important not only for those regions of the developing world, but are also in themselves scientific innovations that can greatly advance the knowledge of the rest of the world. 
Although the evidence presented here demonstrates that there is a long way to go before developing countries contribute a more equitable share to the international scientific community, there are also reasons to be optimistic. 
The extremely high scientific productivity of many developing nations, corrected for and despite the rather limited availability of funds, suggests that increased funding to the sciences will be an excellent investment by developing nations in terms of publications as a measure of scientific output, particularly if these publications can target the journals that have the greatest impact. 
Annan are slowly being built. 
Does it apply to many other global health risks? 
The Global Burden of Disease Database, maintained by the World Health Organization (WHO), collects data from countries around the world on risk factors such as tobacco, malnutrition, childhood abuse, unsafe sex, childbirth, and cholesterol levels, as well as on disease burdens, for example depression, blindness, and diarrhea. 
For being underweight in childhood, for examplethe leading risk factor for global loss of healthy lifethey found that only 35% of the disease burden occurred in severely underweight children, the rest occurred in those only moderately underweight. 
The analysis confirmsand extends to a global levelprevious research showing that many major health risks are important across the range of exposure levels, not just among individuals exposed to high levels of risk. 
Lung fibroblasts respond, in vitro , to inflammatory cytokines by producing growth factors and collagen, resulting in fibroblast proliferation and extracellular matrix deposition [ 2 3 4 ] . 
This capacity to produce both inflammatory and fibrotic factors could mean that phenotypically altered lung fibroblasts act simultaneously as effector and target cells, via paracrine and autocrine mechanisms, perpetuating the fibrotic process [ 2 ] . 
Prostaglandin (PG)E 2 is thought to have antifibrotic properties in vitro , but also can have proinflammatory effects both in vivo and in vitro [ 10 11 12 ] . 
It has been previously reported that IPF lung fibroblasts have decreased COX-2 expression compared to normal lung fibroblasts and, hence, have decreased PGE 2 production [ 12 20 21 ] . 
Materials and methods Primary lung fibroblasts Fibroblasts from the lungs of seven patients (6 males) with IPF (HF-IPF) were harvested: a) from excised lung at the time of lung transplantation; b) during an autopsy performed within 4 hours from death; or c) during open or transbronchial lung biopsies at the time of diagnosis. 
The mean age of the patients was 59 (range 43-71)]. 
The cells were harvested and cultured as per the protocol described by Kumar et al. 
Briefly, lung tissue sections were finely cut with sterile scissors and incubated with serum free DMEM containing trypsin, DNAse and collagenase for 30 min. 
Culture medium (DMEM with 5% fetal bovine serum [FBS] and penicillin/streptomycin) was replaced three times per week and fibroblasts were passed (1:2 split) at the time they became confluent. 
Inducible cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and eicosanoid production COX-2 activity was determined by measuring PGE 2 , 6-keto-PGF 1 (stable PGI 2 metabolite), TXB 2 (stable TXA 2 metabolite), and PGF 2 production in stimulated fibroblasts. 
Fibroblasts were then incubated in DMEM with 5% FBS alone or in the same medium with IL-1 (2.5 ng/ml) for 24 hours. 
After 30 min of incubation the supernatant was collected and saved at -70C for later eicosanoid analysis. 
The above experiments were repeated in HF-IPF (n = 2) and HF-NL (n = 2) using serum free media conditions. 
Briefly, deuterium-labeled internal standards of PGE 2 , PGF 2 , TXB 2 , and 6-keto-PGF 1 were added to the supernatants with isopropyl alcohol. 
After acidification to pH 3.5, the samples were extracted on preconditioned C-18 PrepSep columns (Fisher Scientific, Fair Lawn, NJ), and eluted with ethyl acetate. 
After evaporation of reagents, the residue was subjected to TLC plates, using the solvent system chloroform/ethanol (93:7, vol/vol) for PGF 2 and TXB 2 , and ethyl acetate/methanol (93:2, vol/vol) for 6-keto-PGF 1 and PGE 2 . 
The methoxime derivative of TXB 2 , PGE 2 and 6-keto-PGF 1 was made by treatment with 2% methoxamine hydrochloride in pyridine at 70C for 60 min, followed by evaporation of the pyridine, addition of water, and extraction with ethyl acetate. 
Eicosanoids were quantified by measuring the ratio of the intensity of ions m/z 569/573 for PGF 2 , m/z 614/618 for TXB 2 and 6-keto-PGF 1 , and m/z 524/528 for PGE 2 . 
Western analysis After washing with PBS at pH 7.4, pellets were lyzed in solubilization buffer containing 50 mM TRIS at pH 8, 1% Tween 20, 10 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, diethyldithiocarbamic acid, leupeptin and pepstatin A (all from Sigma Chemical), sonicated, boiled with gel loading buffer (62.5 mM TRIS-HCl, at pH 6.8, 10% glycerol, 2% SDS, 5% -mercaptoethanol, and bromophenol blue), and centrifuged at 15,000 x g for 10 min. 
After washing, the membranes were incubated with luminol based chemiluminescence reagent (DuPont NEN Research Products, Boston, MA). 
RNA was quantified by determining light absorbance at 260 nm and then fractioned by electrophoresis (10 g per lane) on a 1% agarose MOPS/formaldehyde gel. 
The RNA was transferred by gravity-assisted capillary method with 6X SSC to nylon hybridization membrane, and then fixed to the membrane by UV crosslinking (Stratalinker 1200 j/cm 2). 
The COX-2 probe was random primed following the directions of the manufacturer (Megaprime , Amersham/Pharmacia). 
The membrane was wrapped in plastic wrap and exposed to Kodak XR film at -70C with intensifier screen overnight. 
Results Baseline and stimulated COX-2 activity in HF-IPF and HF-NL Unstimulated eicosanoid production was similar in both HF-IPF and HF-NL (Fig. 
When fibroblasts were stimulated with IL-1 there was a significant and similar upregulation of PGE 2 production in both HF-IPF and HF-NL (28.35 [range: 9.09-89.09] versus 17.12 [8.58-29.33] ng/10 6cells/30 min, respectively; P = 0.25; [Fig. 
IL-1-stimulated production of TXB 2 (stable metabolite of the active TXA 2 ), PGF 2 , and 6-keto-PGF 1 (stable metabolite of PGI 2 ) increased modestly in every case, except TXB 2 production by HF-NL, which decreased (0.75 [0.15-2.58] ng/10 6cells/30 min at baseline versus 0.61 [0.21-1.64] ng/10 6cells/30 min with IL-1 stimulation) (Fig. 
Because PGI 2 and TXA 2 have opposing effects in vivo , we calculated the ratio of their metabolites (6-keto-PGF 1 :TXB 2 ) and found a significantly lower ratio in HF-IPF at baseline (0.08 [0.04-0.52] versus 0.12 [0.11-0.89] in HF-IPF and HF-NL, respectively; P = 0.028) and a similar trend under stimulated conditions (0.24 [0.05-1.53] versus 1.08 [0.51-3.79] in HF-IPF and HF-NL, respectively; P = 0.09 [Fig. 
Baseline and stimulated COX-2 expression Western blot in unstimulated fibroblasts showed no detectable COX-2 protein in either group of cells, while IL-1 significantly induced COX-2 to a similar degree in IPF and normal lung fibroblasts (Fig. 
Northern blot showed minimal COX-2 mRNA in unstimulated cells and significant upregulation of COX-2 mRNA expression when stimulated with IL-1 in both HF-IPF and HF-NL (Fig. 
Discussion Several factors modulate fibroblast proliferation and collagen production, including mitogenic cytokines (e.g., transforming growth factor  [TGF], platelet-derived growth factor [PDGF], basic fibroblast growth factor [bFGF]), eicosanoids (i.e., PGE 2 , TXB 2 , and PGI 2 ), and antifibrogenic cytokines (e.g. 
The above results suggest that a decreased PGI 2 :TXA 2 ratio could be a phenotypic alteration present in IPF fibroblasts, resulting in a loss of their capacity to autoregulate proliferation and extracellular matrix production. 
TXA 2 has been studied extensively because of its apparent role in atherosclerosis, due to its prothrombotic and mitogenic activities on vascular smooth muscle cells [ 15 16 ] . 
In vascular smooth muscle cells TXA 2 stimulates synthesis of bFGF and increases the expression of the proto-oncogenes c-fos , c-myc , and egr-1 , which are associated with entry into the cell growth cycle [ 15 ] . 
On the other hand, PGI 2 decreases vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and collagen and glycosaminoglycane synthesis, via activation of adenylyl cyclase and subsequent production of cAMP [ 17 ] . 
These effects may counteract the profibrotic effects seen with TXA 2 and it is possible that an alteration of a "normal" physiologic balance between PGI 2 and TXA 2 could increase tendency towards fibrogenesis. 
Although this is a possibility, the age-related shift in PG production has only been shown at very high cell passages and has not been documented in vivo . 
PGE 2 can decrease fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis, and increase collagen degradation [ 5 6 7 8 ] . 
Vancheri and collaborators [ 20 ] found that TNF--stimulated fibrotic lung fibroblasts had decreased COX-2 expression and PGE 2 production, but they further showed that these findings were a result of decreased expression of TNF- receptors. 
In another study, Keerthisingam et al. 
This study differed from ours in that a different stimulus was used. 
[ 21 ] were obtained from patients with systemic sclerosis, which makes their fibroblast population more heterogeneous. 
[ 12 ] also reported a decreased production of PGE 2 by IL-1-stimulated IPF fibroblasts, due to decreased COX-2 expression [ 12 ] . 
However, we feel certain that the diagnostic accuracy of our patient population was high, due to the fact that 5 out of a total of 7 IPF subjects included in our study underwent lung transplantation with confirmatory pathology results consistent with IPF. 
In addition, our results were similar when comparing lung fibroblasts obtained from 5 subjects with advanced stage IPF with those of 2 subjects at an earlier stage of their disease, who had received no therapy. 
Conclusion We have found that fibroblasts cultured from normal and IPF human lungs have a significant and similar induction of the COX-2 enzyme when stimulated with IL-1, but that IPF fibroblasts produced more thromboxane and had a significantly lower prostacyclin:thromboxane ratio. 
Abbreviations COX = cyclooxygenase; HF = human fibroblasts; NL = normal lungs; IPF = idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; IFN = interferon; IL = interleukin; PG = prostaglandin; TX = thromboxane; PGI 2 = prostacyclin. 
Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands, marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring. 
, the Phoenicians set out from what is now Iran to explore their surroundings. 
, and were already in place by the late Bronze Age (c. 
). 
Cycladic Culture At around 3500 b.c. 
The people farmed and fished; on the dawning of the Bronze Age in 2700 b.c. 
The Cycladic culture was influenced by societies in the east, importing the pottery wheel from Mesopotamia. 
The Minoans and the Myceneans Farther south in Crete, the Minoan culture developed after 2000 b.c. 
Santorini (Thira), the next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. 
Around 1500 b.c. 
Massive tidal waves swept over Crete, and other parts of the Mediterranean, smashing buildings and drowning many thousands of people. 
), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland. 
Their extensive military campaigns were later chronicled by Homer in his epic poems The Odyssey and The Iliad. 
They were a barbaric race, and their custody of the area brought about a dark period during which the written word was forgotten and art disappeared. 
At the same time, city-states began to grow in influence on the southern Greek mainland. 
However, Greece was not yet a country; each city-state was self-governing and autonomous. 
Culture and the arts flourished once again. 
, to promote friendly competition. 
The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major building projects. 
The Persian Wars As Athens rose in influence and power in the West, it was matched in the East by the rise of the Persian Empire. 
In 490 b.c. 
The two superpowers finally clashed at the epic battles of Marathon and Salamis in 480 b.c. 
Following its victory, Athens introduced the concept of a mutual protection alliance (a kind of NATO of the ancient world). 
The alliance became known as the Delian League. 
Later, in 454 b.c. 
In 431 b.c. 
Although the islands saw little action, as the war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power. 
, many islands had already transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II of Macedon. 
by his son Alexander the Great, one of the most remarkable leaders in history. 
Following Alexanders death, his lands were divided among his generals. 
Cleopatra was a member of this famous ruling clan. 
, Mithradates made a swift and successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands, the next major power change brought influence from the West. 
The Byzantine Empire and the Coming of Christianity The Romans ruled a pagan empire, but the Aegean had an important influence on the early development of Christianity. 
95, St. 
It was here that he wrote what was to become the final book of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation. 
330, however, when the newly converted Emperor Constantine made Byzantium, renamed Constantinople, capital of his Eastern Empire that Christianity was assured of its dominant role in future Greek life. 
In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army forcefully enlisted the men of the islands. 
Unfortunately, their zeal was not matched by their discrimination. 
Constantinople was taken by Crusader forces in 1204, and they stripped the city of manyof its finest treasures  which now grace the public buildings of Venice  although a large consignment of books and manuscripts was transferred to the monastery at Patmos before the city fell. 
To counter this, the populations moved from their homes on the coast and built settlements inland, out of sight of the raiding parties. 
The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco Sanudo on Naxos. 
The Venetians fortified their main towns  Naxos Town and Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  creating labyrinths of narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to demoralize invaders. 
After a final bloody defeat by the Muslims in 1309, Christian forces were forced from the Holy Land. 
However, they had not seen the last of their Muslim foe. 
The Coming of the Ottoman Turks The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east, taking land in what is now Turkey. 
In 1453, they took Constantinople, and immediately made it their capital, renaming it Istanbul. 
John and, after an unsuccessful siege in 1480, they finally ejected the knights from the Dodecanese in 1522. 
The Ottomans brought new influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean. 
In 1770, Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774. 
Although this attempt was unsuccessful, the campaign for a Greek state continued into the 19th century and began to grow in strength. 
Lesvos, Chios, and Samos lay in the important shipping lanes, and patriots began disrupting Ottoman cargo traffic. 
The Ottoman Empire was weakening, however, and in 1821, the peoples of the Greek mainland achieved nationhood for the first time. 
A new sense of identity enveloped Greek peoples throughout the Aegean, thus commencing a movement to expand Greece and unify the disparate Orthodox populations. 
The Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the Dodecanese islands to the Italians. 
He promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those considered Greek were victims of threats and violence. 
Thousands of people arrived with little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the resources of the islands. 
Greece attempted to stay out of World War II, but Mussolini saw Greece as an ideal addition to his Italian empire. 
Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the islands. 
But the country was politically fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right and left, and tension escalated into civil war. 
Even after the fighting stopped more than a decade later, the country was not stable. 
The Aegean Islands, which for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of several islands came close to collapse. 
The EU has given large subsidies to develop Greeces infrastructure and grants to excavate and protect its ancient monuments. 
Private investment has even made an increasingly modern ferry fleet possible. 
As the Balkans flared to war once again, Greek nationalism has stirred, and there have been discussions in the kafeneion about the land of Macedonia returning to the fold of its forefathers. 
, Jerusalem was a Canaanite mountain stronghold on a secondary trade route, far less important than biblical cities such as Hazor, Megiddo, Beth Shean, and Shechem. 
 Scholars speculate that Shalim might have been an ancient Semitic deity of peace, for the name resembles the modern Hebrew and Arabic words for peace: shalom and salaam, respectively. 
The city is not mentioned again in the Bible until the time of the great poet warrior, King David, who captured the city from the Jebusites in about 1000 b.c. 
Warrens Shaft, part of a Canaanite water system discovered by 19th-century archaeologists and open to visitors, might be the very tunnel infiltrated by Davids army. 
on Mt. 
At the Temples dedication, Solomon addressed his God: ... 
 The site of the Temple eventually became identified as Mt. 
Along with this splendid house of worship, Solomon built a royal palace, mansions for his wives, temples for the foreign gods worshipped by the princesses he had married, and towers for the defense of the capital. 
The Temple and royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years. 
The Bible tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms aroused the fury of the great Prophets. 
the Assyrian armies of Sennacherib destroyed Israel and moved southward to besiege Jerusalem. 
The end of Davids dynasty came in 587 b.c. 
When it fell, the Temple and all the buildings were burned. 
 In time, the kingdom of Babylon was overthrown and the Israelites were permitted to return to Jerusalem in 539 b.c. 
The Second Temple was finished in 515 b.c. 
Jerusalem submitted peaceably to the rule of the Greeks in 332 b.c. 
When Seleucid rulers outlawed Judaism, Jews led by Judah Maccabee and his brothers staged a revolution in 167 b.c. 
The Macabbees cleansed the Temple of Hellenistic idols and the blood of pagan sacrifices; the eight-day celebration of Hanukkah (Feast of Dedication) commemorates their victory. 
Jerusalem grew, surrounded with a formidable wall and defended by towers beside the Jaffa Gate. 
, during which time he fortified the Hasmonean wall and rebuilt the defense towers beside Jaffa Gate, the foundation of which still stand. 
Herod also completely rebuilt the Temple, making it one of the most important religious centers in the Roman Empire. 
One of these walls, the Western Wall, is today a major reminder of Jerusalems greatness under Herod. 
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah. 
, Joseph and Mary escaped Herods paranoia by fleeing into Egypt with the new-born infant. 
According to biblical accounts, Jesus spent his life ministering in the Galilee Valley. 
30 he and his followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this time, dissatisfied with Roman domination. 
Jesus was put on trial quickly and condemned to crucifixion, a Roman form of execution for political and religious dissidents as well as for common criminals. 
After Jesuss crucifixion, harsh Roman rule continued until a.d. 
For four years Jewish zealots fought against the might of Rome. 
70, finally attacking its starved and weakened defenders. 
The Holy City and the Temple were destroyed. 
Half a million civilians died in the Galilee and Judea as a result of this first revolt against Rome, a number unequaled in ancient warfare. 
In outrage, the Jews began a second revolt against Rome, led by Simon bar Kochba. 
The planned new Roman city, Aelia Capitolina, was built over the ruins of Herodian Jerusalem, and Jews were barred from residing there for all time. 
Queen Helena, a devout Christian and the mother of Emperor Constantine the Great, made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 326 to identify the sites associated with Jesuss life. 
The temple was demolished and a vast, Classical-style church was built around Golgotha (the hill where Jesuss crucifixion was believed to have taken place). 
Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced Jerusalem to rubble again. 
From here the Prophet ascended to the heavens and was permitted to glimpse paradise. 
The Dome of the Rock remains Jerusalems most striking monument; it is counted among the most beautiful buildings ever created. 
Jerusalem continued under Islamic rule for the next four and a half centuries. 
Crusaders, Mamelukes, and Turks The Crusaders established a feudal Christian state with Godfrey at its head. 
During the Sixth Crusade (1228 1229), the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II managed to secure Jerusalem for the Christians by negotiation. 
After they lost Jerusalem, a Mongol invasion swept through, and in 1244 the Mameluke dynasty of Egypt took control, ruling Jerusalem for the next 250 years. 
Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had enjoyed in earlier times. 
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl (18601904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish state. 
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the idea of a Jewish national home in Palestine that also respected the rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there. 
In 1922 the League of Nations granted the British a mandate to administer Palestine. 
Modern neighborhoods, hospitals, schools, and the Hebrew University were built in West Jerusalem, the new Jewish enclave. 
In 1947 the United Nations voted for the partition of Palestine into two states, one Jewish and one Arab, with Jerusalem as an international city that belonged to neither. 
Modern Israel The State of Israel was declared during this difficult time. 
West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the coastal areas. 
As a result of armistice agreements in 1949, Jerusalem was divided: West Jerusalem was to be under Israeli control, and East Jerusalem (including the Old City, with its Jewish, Muslim, Christian, and Armenian quarters) came under Jordanian authority. 
However, with the city partitioned by fortifications and barbed wire, no Israeli or Jewish pilgrims were allowed to visit the Western Wall or other Jewish sites in East Jerusalem. 
Jerusalems mayor, Teddy Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the concerns of Jerusalems many communities. 
But the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the worlds attention into the new millennium. 
, when much of the area was covered by a prehistoric lake. 
The landscape of the valley changed dramatically over the next 200 centuries. 
Fossils tell an obscure story of mans slow and sporadic development. 
, native Archaic Indians began to develop a lasting hunting and gathering culture. 
These springs fed a network of streams draining through the Las Vegas Wash to the Colorado River. 
Many springs lay in areas that would eventually become the center of the modern Las Vegas metropolis. 
Far more progressive than the Archaics, the Anasazi utilized such formal agricultural techniques as irrigation to assist their harvest. 
Mysteriously, the Anasazi vanished from the valley around a.d. 
Unable to replicate the agricultural techniques of the Anasazi, the Paiutes were destined to a semi-nomadic lifestyle until European settlers arrived, changing the nature of existence in the valley forever. 
It was not until 1829 that Rafael Rivera, a Mexican scout, found a spring-fed valley and dubbed it Las Vegas  a Spanish name that leaves many modern visitors wondering exactly where the meadows really lay. 
This put Las Vegas on the map and was one of the crucial turning points of its history. 
Surrounded by acres of farmland hewn from the hard desert, the adobe fort became a focal point for the development of Las Vegas for the next fifty years. 
Additional pressures from arriving miners pushed the missionaries plight beyond recovery. 
Despite the fact that the local land was rich in silver, by 1865 most of the mining traffic through Las Vegas was of prospectors headed to California or Northern Nevada in search of gold. 
Bestowed with plenty of the invaluable pioneer spirit that characterizes Las Vegas to this day, Gass redirected his life by picking up where the Mormons left off  at least when it came to ranching and farming. 
He expanded the ranch and irrigated the land so that it would support crops and cattle. 
Despite his ambition, Gass success was short-lived. 
True to wild-West stereotypes, Stewart was slain by a neighboring farmer, leaving his strong-willed wife, Helen, to assume the duties of the ranch. 
What happened next would mark the end of the successful Las Vegas Ranch and the beginning of the era of the subdivision seen across almost all of Western America to this day. 
Of Tracks and Tracts At the turn of the 19th century Los Angeles and Salt Lake City were among the burgeoning metropolises of the new American West. 
Las Vegas would serve as a major stopover for crew rest and train repair. 
The remainder she returned to the native Paiutes. 
Land speculators and locals alike were anxious to own a part of the newest railroad boomtown, and within an afternoon, more than 80 percent of the lots were sold. 
With rail service in place and forty blocks of private property, it was ready to become a real town. 
The railroad needed a way station, and Las Vegas was the place. 
But such heady progress would soon come to a halt. 
These unfortunate circumstances threatened to relegate Las Vegas to the status of a small desert community that could no longer support its 3000 residents. 
Construction on Hoover Dam (originally Boulder Dam, subsequently renamed for the president who authorized the project) began in 1931 in a canyon 45 miles (72 km) southeast of Las Vegas. 
Not only did it create jobs, but it also created Lake Mead, the massive reservoir that today provides water to all of southern Nevada. 
The state legislature helped as well, by legalizing gambling in 1931 and thus solidifying the future of the town, though legislators and residents could never have known this at the time. 
They went to work on what has become one of the lengthiest citywide tourism campaigns ever attempted. 
Vices outlawed or heavily controlled elsewhere were legal here, available any hour of any day (or night). 
Additional catalysts for the valleys growth came from World War II. 
By 1945, the population had grown to almost 20,000, with workers and airmen moving in at a rapid pace. 
During this period, East Coast Syndicate member Benjamin Bugsy Siegel earned a foothold as a local casino operator. 
When the Flamingo opened in December 1946, it did so with Hollywood flair and the new Vegas flash. 
Despite its initial failings, Siegels Flamingo survived him, as did mob infiltration of casinos. 
Freely flowing comps (complimentary food, drink, and entertainment) were the order of the day, with mob bosses content to provide an environment of pleasurable excess as long as the cash kept rolling in. 
From the mid-1940s to the mid-1960s, Las Vegas nurtured a growing sense that it was the Entertainment Capital of the World. 
Many of them did. 
The Rat Pack  originally Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr. 
Other Hollywood stars came as well, simply because Las Vegas was the place to be. 
The Thunderbird, Desert Inn, Sahara, Sands, and Riviera hotels were erected during this period, luring a curious clientele drawn by tales of all-night partying, exclusive entertainment, and cheap accommodations. 
New Legitimacy Organized crime was soon to have a formidable adversary in its bid to control Las Vegas  corporate cash. 
True to the myth, the reclusive Hughes immediately cloistered himself in the Desert Inns penthouse. 
Thus began Hughes legendary three-year, $300-million Las Vegas buying spree. 
Hughes actions would have beneficial repercussions, both immediate and lasting. 
Casino operators had to reassess the nature of their business. 
In the mid-1980s, Wynn began plans to reinvigorate Las Vegas with a new resort. 
Wynns demolition of the existing properties started a trend that, more than any other, describes Las Vegas at the end of the 20th century: removal of old properties in exchange for the potential of new ones. 
Wynns casinos have also set new standards. 
Excalibur, the MGM Grand, the Luxor, and New York-New York all followed Mirages lead during the 1990s, offering themed environments and attractions for families. 
The latest approach is perhaps the best of the post-mob era: the comprehensive resort. 
Additionally, a handful of resorts  such as the South-Seas themed Mandalay Bay, the Mirage, and the new Four Seasons  are now catering exclusively to the luxury travel market. 
The worlds most expensive resort at $1.6 billion, the Bellagios amenities include 5-star dining, Chanel-caliber boutiques, and a world-class collection of artistic masterworks. 
As it changed from mob gam bling town to corporate gaming venue, the population of Las Vegas skyrocketed. 
Recent business projections for Las Vegas predict challenges; tourism revenues must increase substantially to sustain what is already built, while actual figures show visitation as steady or declining. 
Still, the future of Las Vegas is sure to be determined as much by the pioneering spirit that built the city as by anything else. 
Dublin and the Dubliners As capital of Europes most explosive economy, Dublin seems to be changing before your very eyes. 
At night the streets are crowded with people bent on having a good time. 
But this is not the whole picture. 
This busy, modern European city sits on a thousand years of history  history is present everywhere, from elegant Merrion Square to the bullet holes on the General Post Office. 
Dublin excels in packaging its past for the visitor. 
Old buildings are being recycled; for example, the 17th-century Royal Hospital now holds the Museum of Modern Art. 
City on the Liffey The River Liffey flows from west to east through the center of the city to Dublin Bay. 
This geography is important in understanding Dublin. 
The occasional cry of gulls and unexpected distant vistas will remind you that Dublin is by the sea, and the Wicklow mountains, which hold Dublin closely to the coast, are visible from everywhere. 
To the south and east is St. 
Along the Liffey to the west is Temple Bar, center of nightlife and home to many of Dublins cutting-edge artists and artistic endeavors. 
It wont rain on you in Dublin all the time. 
Joyce, the high priest of literary Modernism, imagined and interpreted Dublin for the world in Ulysses (youll see references to it all over). 
The citys impact on the rock and pop music scene with the likes of U2 and Bob Geldof is well known  theres even a self-guided tour of their haunts. 
And in this city, where literature and theater have historically dominated the scene, visual arts are finally coming into their own with the new Museum of Modern Art and the many galleries that display the work of modern Irish artists. 
And while multinational chains have made inroads, they seem less blatant here than elsewhere. 
Dublins food has undergone a metamorphosis. 
City and Countryside In a city of such human proportions it is not surprising that parks and gardens abound for recreation and relaxation. 
The beautiful Wicklow Mountains, and the Wicklow Mountains National Park provide a more rugged countryside, and the area has breathtaking houses and gardens such as Castletown, Mount Usher, and Powerscourt. 
The DART (Dublin Area Rapid Transit) runs north and south along the coast. 
There are many guided bus tours to sights outside the city, and some are accessible by city bus. 
Dublin is a young city. 
The universities attract students from all over the world, and this influx helps to make Dublin a busy, buzzing international city. 
Unemployment is at an all-time low. 
Hong Kong and Its People Exciting, mysterious, glamorous  these words have described Hong Kong for at least a century. 
Hong Kong is crowded  it has one of the worlds greatest population densities. 
Shopping never ends  theres always another inviting spot just down the street. 
On 1 July, 1997 the British Crown Colony of Hong Kong reverted to Chinese sovereignty as a Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of China. 
But in fact, there have been changes, many of them due to economic progress, new construction, and other factors that influence cities all over the world. 
British social customs are still evident in the kind of polite service you get in hotels and in the long lines of people waiting for buses at rush hour. 
With a population of nearly eight million and a total area of just over 1,095 square km (423 square miles), housing is one of Hong Kongs perennial nightmares. 
Whole cities have been created in the New Territories, although the unimaginative architecture of these towns has been criticized. 
The majority are Cantonese, born in Hong Kong, or from South China, but there are immigrants from all over China. 
There are many stories of refugees who arrived with nothing in their pockets, set up a small sidewalk stall, worked diligently until they had their own store, and then expanded it into a modest chain. 
Hong Kong has two major racetracks as well as an intensive off-track betting system, and on weekends the ferries to Macau are crowded with people on their way to the casinos. 
Views of the city and the harbor are panoramic. 
The business and financial center and the signature soaring architecture are on Hong Kong Island. 
Beyond, in the New Territories, are a mixture of high-rise suburban towns, ancient sites and walled villages, country parks, and farms with ducks and fish ponds. 
You can also take a ferry to Macau to find an entirely different kind of city, a unique blend of Chinese and Iberian culture. 
What to Do Shopping Inflation has taken its toll in Hong Kong. 
Since Hong Kong is a duty-free port and charges no sales tax, goods are cheaper here than in the country where they were made. 
Specialty goods and souvenirs, often handmade, come from Hong Kong and elsewhere in China. 
Note that alcohol and tobacco are both exceptions to Hong Kongs duty-free regime and are subject to tax. 
Large shops on the fashionable thoroughfares tend to be more expensive than smaller family shops tucked away in the side streets. 
Most shops are open seven days a week. 
The only holiday on which all commerce comes to a halt is the Chinese New Year in January or February. 
Be aware that name brands, including electronics, are sometimes fakes, glass may be sold as jade, and that antique you bought may have been made last night. 
Needless to say, avoid peddlers who approach you on the street and offer to take you to wondrous bargains. 
Compare prices before you buy any significant item. 
Note that when haggling, the merchant assumes you are prepared to pay cash. 
It is advisable to shop at outlets that are members of the Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA), identified by a red junk logo. 
2508 1234. 
Shipping. 
Ask if automatic free insurance is provided. 
Packages sent to the US or to Europe generally take six to eight weeks by surface mail, and one week by airmail. 
Major shopping areas are Tsim Sha Tsui in Kowloon, especially along Nathan Road; Central on Hong Kong Island, particularly for upscale designer goods; Causeway Bay for slightly better prices; and the Hollywood Road area. 
Look for Lane Crawford Ltd., an upscale store with branches at Pacific Place, 70 Queens Road, and Harbour City; Wing On, one of the oldest in Hong Kong; Marks and Spencer; and the Japanese department stores, Mitsukoshi, Sobo, and Seibu. 
In addition, most top-line hotels have upscale malls full of designer boutiques. 
These stores sell excess stock or factory overruns. 
There are factory showrooms in the Pedder Building, 12 Pedder Street, in Central. 
Markets are the places to use your bargaining skills. 
Every conceivable kind of goods is sold here: clothing, all kinds of electronics, CDs, souvenirs, crafts, and jewelry. 
Bargain, and carefully examine any merchandise you buy here. 
This is not the place to make expensive purchases, but its great for inexpensive pendants, earrings, and gifts. 
The experts point out that it is not age alone that determines a Chinese antiques value  the dynasties of the past had their creative ups and downs. 
29 for furniture and silver, Tai Sing Company at 122 for porcelain. 
47 or the Cat Street crafts stores and flea market. 
Chinese Arts and Crafts is at Pacific Place in Central, and in Star House in Tsim Sha Tsui; CRC Department Store is on Hennessy Road in Causeway Bay. 
Cameras. 
However, be sure you compare prices and models before buying. 
Carpets and Rugs. 
Hong Kongs stores are usually able to arrange shipment. 
China (Porcelain). 
Factories in Kowloon and the New Territories, producing traditional and modern china, are geared to entertain and instruct visiting tourists; prices are appealing. 
Before you begin shopping, pick up HKTAs Shopping Guide to Consumer Electronics. 
Furniture. 
Rattan furniture is highly popular. 
 Good for the health is just one of the many magical qualities that are attributed to these beautiful emerald-green or turquoise stones. 
Some people say you can test the authenticity by touch  real jade feels smooth and cool. 
Better still, go shopping with an expert. 
Thanks to the duty-free situation, prices in Hong Kong are lower than they are in some other places. 
Popular purchases include diamonds and freshwater pearls. 
Department stores sell all sorts of intriguing kitchen equipment. 
However, the leather garment industry is growing, and there is a wide range of locally produced leather accessories, all at extremely attractive prices. 
Musical, Audio, and Video Equipment. 
Whatever you buy, you may be able to work out a discount. 
Hong Kongs shops carry almost every recognizable European and many American labels, from top-end designers to the moderately priced or trendy. 
Tailoring. 
Local tailors are experts when it comes to producing custom-tailored garments for both men and women, and are also adept at copying patterns. 
In choosing a tailor, look for HKTA membership. 
If you want to learn something about tea, go to the Tea Shop at 149 Hollywood Road, or the Moon Garden Tea House at 5 Hoi Ping Road, Causeway Bay. 
Watches. 
An enormous variety of makes and models are on sale. 
Entertainment Day and night, the action goes on in this vibrant city. 
Hong Kong Diary published weekly by HKTA tells whats happening in the arts. 
Culture buffs are well catered to, and there is always a varied program of events, ranging from world-class concerts to local amateur dramatic productions. 
Tickets for the shows must be reserved well in advance. 
More than 200 films from all over the world are shown at this two-week event. 
The Performing Arts Performance Venues. 
Other performance centers are the City Hall cultural complex, with exhibition halls and theaters that present concerts, plays, and films; the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts with two major theaters for dance, drama, and concert performances; and the Hong Kong Arts Centre in Wan Chai, where both local and visiting groups perform. 
Larger arenas, including the Queen Elizabeth Stadium, the Hong Kong Coliseum, and the Ko Shan Theater in Kowloon play host to various concerts, pop concerts, sporting events, and variety shows. 
The Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra performs new and traditional works; a wide assortment of traditional and Chinese instruments are featured. 
Under its conductor, David Atherton, it offers Western classical works and new works by Chinese composers in a September-to-June season. 
Cantonese opera is alive and well in Hong Kong, and the two other forms, Beijing and Kun, are sometimes presented. 
Although the music may seem strange to the unaccustomed ear, it certainly wont put you to sleep; cymbals and drums guarantee your alertness. 
Hong Kongs three professional dance companies  the Hong Kong Ballet Company, the Hong Kong Dance Company, and the newer City Contemporary Dance Company  perform regularly, often at the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts. 
The two leading local troupes, the Chung Ying Theatre Company and the Hong Kong Repertory Theatre, perform in Cantonese; there are English-language performances at the Fringe Club theaters, 2 Lower Albert Road, in Central. 
The classic Chinese puppet is the shadow puppet, manipulated behind a screen by three rods, but hand puppet and marionette shows are also on offer, often for free at public parks and playgrounds. 
Note that sometimes there is a cover charge of HK$50 to HK$200 at clubs, which may or may not include a couple of drinks. 
Many restaurants and bars have live music. 
The Frin ge Club, 21 Lower Albert Road, Central, is Hong Kongs best-known alternate entertainment venue, with jazz, rock, and other live music, in addition to a gallery for visual arts. 
Pubs are numerous. 
The clubs and bars of Wan Chai, long the center of seedy nightlife, have become almost respectable. 
Ricks Cafe, 78-82 Jaffe Road, is a long-time disco thats still popular. 
Todays trendy spot is Soho (SOuth of HOllywood) around Hollywood Road, Elgin, and Stauton streets. 
Causeway Bay also has a variety of bars and clubs. 
Japanese karaoke bars have now become extremely popular with the locals. 
Nightlife tours are offered by a number of companies. 
There are evening bus tours that include visits to a restaurant and night spots; some tours combine a Chinese banquet with a visit to an open-air market and the panorama from Victoria Peak. 
In subtropical Hong Kong you can swim from April to early November. 
Most have lifeguards on duty from April to October, changing rooms, toilets, and snack stands. 
They are very crowded, especially on summer weekends. 
2812 7070) welcomes visitors to its three 18-hole courses at Fanling in the New Territories, or the 9-hole course at Deep Water Bay. 
2987 7273) has an 18-hole Robert Trent Jones Jr. 
Many Hong Kong residents and visitors take the express train to Guangzhou to play at the Guangzhou Luhu Golf and Country Club (Tel. 
The 72-par course was designed by Dave Thomas. 
In the New Territories the famous MacLehose Trail stretches 97 km (60 miles) from Sai Kung Peninsula to Tuen Mun. 
Both trails are divided into smaller segments of varying difficulty. 
HKTA also has trail maps and sponsors the Guided Nature Walks, led by rangers, that include hikes in all the different regions of Hong Kong. 
Victoria Park has a jogging track in Causeway Bay. 
Because of the heavy harbor traffic, only sailors licensed by the Hong Kong authorities can run pleasure boats in local waters. 
2832 2817 for information. 
HKTA offers lessons in these exercises that improve concentration and balance at Garden Plaza, Hong Kong Park, Admiralty (Tel. 
Tennis. 
2570 6168), near Tin Hau Station. 
All levels of society share a feverish interest in the Sport of Kings. 
The Hong Kong Tourist Association runs a Come Horseracing Tour, which includes entry to the Hong Kong Jockey Club visitors box and members enclosure, and a buffet-style meal. 
The Hong Kong International Cricket Series, held in late September, brings teams from all over the world. 
A ride on the Peak Tram is sure to provide a thrill, and in the Peak Tower theyll enjoy the Peak Explorer ride and Ripleys Believe it or Not! 
Theres a special Kids World that those under 12 can enter free when accompanied by a paying adult. 
Hong Kongs state-of-the-art interactive museums will interest children of all ages. 
For children who love boats, riding the Star Ferry or ferry trips to outlying islands will be exciting, and the Dolphin Watch trip (see page 113) is certain to appeal. 
As the double-decker boats get ready to leave the pier, bells ring, the gangplank is raised, deckhands in blue sailor suits man the hawsers, and a couple of hundred commuters begin a seven-minute sightseeing tour. 
Next to the Jardine building is Exchange Square, a complex with a large shopping mall; just behind it is the General Post Office with a philatelic center on the ground floor. 
On Connaught Road Central, youll find one of Hong Kongs curiosities, the 244-m- (800-ft-) long Mid-Levels outdoor escalator. 
Nearby is Central Market, the wholesale food market of Hong Kong, and the Hang Seng building (private offices). 
No longer a center of government, it now functions as a cultural center. 
So great is the pressure on the available land that most of Hong Kongs colonial architectural heritage has been demolished and replaced by new skyscrapers. 
Pei Bank of China Tower, not beloved by the people of Hong Kong  its triangular prisms and sharp angles violate the principles of feng shui (see box, page 68) and its radio masts stick up like an insects antennae. 
From inside the vast atrium you can view the whole structure as well as the mechanical workings of the building. 
You can catch one of Hong Kongs historic trams along Des Voeux Road and ride from Central to Causeway Bay (see box, page 66). 
From the Bank of China Tower, make a short detour up Garden Road and turn into Battery Path to reach the landmark St. 
Built 18471849, this usually deserted Anglican foundation is Hong Kongs oldest church. 
Note the stained glass windows in the Quiet Chapel, designed by Joseph Edward Nuttgens in the late 1950s. 
Across from the I.M. 
The parks 10.5 hectares (25 acres) of landscaped gardens and lakes contains a large greenhouse that holds many species of plants, and an aviary of exotic birds. 
Its in Hong Kongs oldest colonial building, with exhibits describing the history of tea from the Warring States period (475221 b.c. 
The Peak Tram starts its scenic climb just across the street and around the corner from the American Consulate in Garden Road and makes its way, sometimes at a startlingly steep incline, to the summit at 398 m (1,305 ft). 
Passengers crane their necks for dizzying glimpses of the harbor. 
However, on sunny Saturdays and Sundays you may have to brave a crowd lining up at the lower terminal. 
The view is especially effective at night. 
The parks zoo has a collection of weird and wonderful chattering jungle birds. 
Opposite the Macau Ferry Terminal youll find the Western Market (open 10am7pm). 
For an interesting glimpse of small and family-owned shops, walk along Bonham Strand East and West, Man Wa Lane, and Cleverly Street. 
, and ceramics, including Han Dynasty tomb pottery. 
Around Hollywood Road Take the Mid-Levels Escalator to Hollywood road, known for its antiques and curio shopping. 
Walk west along Hollywood Road until you come to Man Mo Temple, the islands oldest house of worship (though the date of its founding is subject to dispute). 
The gold-plated sedan chairs on the left-hand side of the temple were once used for transporting the statues of the temples gods in religious processions. 
The temple is always crowded with worshipers. 
The interesting Edwardian building was formerly the Pathological Institute, founded to combat the 19th centurys 30-year-long outbreak of bubonic plague. 
Wan Chai Just to the east of the financial district, Wan Chai was once an area of sleazy clubs and topless bars; this was the setting for The World of Suzy Wong. 
There are still bars and clubs here, but the area has become almost mainstream, and office towers are replacing many of the sinful old premises. 
The convention center, an extension on reclaimed land, affords stunning views of the Wan Chai waterfront. 
On Wan Chais Bowen Road, Maidens Rock, also called Lovers Rock, is the gathering place for the annual Maidens festival. 
Every August young women convene to light joss sticks and some even climb the nine-meter (30-ft) rock to pray for good husbands. 
A prosperous tourist district, it is full of shopping centers and department stores, along with a number of good restaurants. 
On the nautical side is the Causeway Bay typhoon shelter, where expensive yachts are anchored almost gunwale to gunwale, and the Hong Kong Yacht Club has its headquarters. 
The gun was made famous by Noel Cowards satirical song, Mad Dogs and Englishmen. 
On the eastern side of Victoria Park on Causeway Road is Tin Hau Temple, dedicated to Tin Hau, the Taoist Queen of Heaven and patroness of seafarers. 
On the 23rd day of the Third Moon, the birthday of the goddess is celebrated here and in all Hong Kong fishing communities. 
At one time it was a very miserable valley, a swampland conducive only to breeding malarial mosquitoes. 
Hong Kongs gamblers are so eager to play the horses that, despite the opening of a bigger and better racetrack at Sha Tin, the Happy Valley Racecourse is thriving. 
around the Coast Aberdeen, the islands oldest settlement, once a pirate lair, is home to the floating population  the boat people who spend their entire lives on the junks in the harbor, some proudly claiming never to have set foot on land (except for funerals, which dont count). 
The boats may appear deceptively primitive, but many of them have their own electric generators and all the modern conveniences. 
You can take a tour of the port in one of the small sampans, propelled by hand by women drivers. 
Aberdeens theatrical floating restaurants have been a tourist attraction for many years. 
It is divided into three areas: a highland, a lowland, and the Middle Kingdom. 
The Oceanarium is said to be the largest in the world, and the Ocean Theatre features displays by dolphins, killer whales, seals, and pelicans. 
The Middle Kingdom is a recreated living history of Chinas past, presented through a number of full-size replicas of shrines, temples, pagodas, palaces, and street scenes. 
The next inlet is Repulse Bay, a roomy, sandy crescent, with green hills. 
Stanley was once one of the main fishing villages on Hong Kong Island. 
Stanley is also a favorite place of residence for ex-pats. 
Kowloon Though much smaller than Hong Kong Island, Kowloon has almost twice the population. 
Most of Kowloons attractions for visitors are centered near the tip of the peninsula in the district known as Tsim Sha Tsui. 
Hong Kongs major venue for the performing arts, the building has been criticized for its fortress-like architecture and windowless faade. 
The center contains a concert hall with acclaimed acoustics, theaters, a library, an exhibition gallery, shops, restaurants, and bars. 
Its futuristic dome design is striking; inside are interactive exhibits, including one in which you can experience weightlessness. 
The Hong Kong Museum of Art (see page 54) stands behind the Space Museum next to the cultural center. 
A few blocks up Chatham Road South are two more major museums. 
The Museum of History (open TuesdaySaturday 10am6pm, Sunday 16pm; closed Monday; admission HK$10 adult, HK$5 child) opened its new permanent collection at the end of August 2001. 
Just across Salisbury Road from the cultural center is the historic Peninsula Hotel, now expanded and modernized by a 32-story tower. 
Alongside the hotel runs busy Nathan Road, Hong Kongs fabled shopping street, lined with shops, hotels, and restaurants. 
At the time it was built, many thought it absurd to have a tree-lined boulevard running through what was practically a wilderness. 
 A few blocks up Nathan Road is Kowloon Park (open daily 6ammidnight), elegantly laid out with fountains, promenades, and ornamental gardens; be sure to go up the steps to see the Sculpture Walk. 
Turn off Nathan and walk down Kansu Street to find the Jade Market (open 10am3pm; see page 80), with more than 100 stalls spread out in a large tent, just before you reach the overpass. 
Everything is sold here, from clothing to souvenirs to electronic goods, and the market is known for its street-side food stalls, where you can dine inexpensively on seafood. 
The temple is one of the many dedicated to Tin Hau, goddess of seafarers; this one also houses an altar to Shing Wong, the citys god. 
Nathan Road goes all the way up to Boundary Street, which marks the boundary between Kowloon and the New Territories. 
Birds are favorite pets in Hong Kong, valued for their singing rather than their plumage, and here youll find all kinds of birds for sale as well as elaborate teak and bamboo cages. 
This ancient burial vault is believed to date back to the Han Dynasty (a.d. 
The barrel-vaulted chambers were discovered while excavating for a nearby housing project. 
Surprises spring up on all sides: new industrial complexes alongside sleepy farming villages, skyscraper towns blooming in the middle of nowhere, Hakka women in their traditional flat straw hats with hanging black curtains, water buffalo, and flashes of azalea everywhere. 
North of the town, a commanding view over all the New Territories to the north can be seen from Tai Mo Shan, Hong Kongs highest peak at 957 m (3,140 ft). 
One-third of all Hong Kongs beaches are to be found in a single 14-km (9-mile) stretch of this regions shoreline. 
Thus you will find 191/2-mile Beach at Castle Peak Bay. 
As you approach the border, you can glimpse the skyscrapers of Shenzhen. 
Set amid Tseun Wans residential towers is the 18th-century walled village of Sam Tung Uk, now preserved as a museum, and a short walk from the MTR station. 
Among the ponds is one inhabited by turtles: Visitors toss in coins in the hope of bouncing one off a turtles head, a sure way of achieving good fortune. 
This is the most easily accessible of the New Territories walled villages. 
Kat Hing Wai was built four or five centuries ago by the Hakka Tang clan, one of the Five Great Clans that migrated here from North China (see page 11). 
The Tang clans earliest walled village was Lo Wai, which also has its defensive wall intact and is entered by a narrow gate. 
Few traditional ancestral halls remain in China since the anti-historical destruction during the Cultural Revolution, so these New Territories ancestral halls are rare survivors. 
One of the most interesting sites in the New Territories is Tai Fu Tai, another rare survivor, this one a mansion that belonged to a Confucian high official. 
The preservation of this wonderful home is ongoing; a projected restoration of the original garden is still in progress. 
The highway and the railway stay close together from Fanling, site of the best golf courses in the area. 
Just up a lane from the market is the Man Mo Temple, with long-burning incense coils hanging from its ceiling, a popular spot dedicated to the Taoist gods of war and literature. 
The Sai Kung area is the location of two official parks and nature preserves, while on the south side of the peninsula are some of the territorys best beaches. 
Teaching here is conducted in both Chinese and English. 
Sha Tin is the site of the Monastery of 10,000 Buddhas, which looks down on a burgeoning town. 
Some indefatigable climbers will want to go up to the top of the nine-story pink pagoda for a panoramic view. 
Also here is the Hongkong Heritage Museum (call Tel. 
The museum has an art collection, and displays of toys and other artifacts. 
Opposite the Sha Tin railway station, New Town Plaza features shops, cinemas, and even a computer-controlled musical fountain. 
Sha Tin Rock, better known as Amah Rock, is actually a pile of several rocks that resemble a woman with a baby in a sling on her back. 
Closer to town is Lion Rock, shaped like a lion lying in wait. 
The Islands Excursion companies sell a variety of orientation cruises of Hong Kong harbor that include a look at some of its 235 outlying islands. 
From the ferry terminals on Hong Kong Island you can escape to islands without cars or cares, where the local people smile hello and, if youre lucky, point you to a secret beach for the ultimate in quality leisure time. 
Chek Lap Kok airport sits on reclaimed land just off Lantau; plans to build a bridge may change Lantau, but at present it is sparsely populated and makes a perfect getaway. 
More than half the island is parkland, and there is a 70-km (45-mile) circular hiking trail (see page 92). 
There are also ferries to Discovery Bay. 
The monastery is strictly vegetarian, and visitors are warned not to bring any meat with them. 
From the monastery, hikers enjoy the two-hour cross-country trek down to Silvermine Bay, but the authorities have warned walkers to be on the lookout for snakes, which can be plentiful in the Lantau hinterland, especially in summer. 
The people of this picturesque village make their living by fishing, duck-breeding, and food-processing. 
A Trappist monastery, situated on a hillside overlooking the east coast of Lantau, is also open to visitors. 
Cheung Chau Some 10 km (6 miles) west of Hong Kong lies this small, crowded island, only one square mile in size. 
The people still carve jade and build seaworthy junks, all by hand. 
Cheung Chau becomes the center of Hong Kong life once a year, usually in May, during the Bun Festival, a folklore extravaganza (see page 89). 
By way of formal tourist attractions, Pak Tai Temple, built in 1783, has some fine carvings and a great iron sword said to be 600 years old. 
There are also several open-air restaurants where you can enjoy fresh seafood. 
Hong Kongs third largest island has a population of only about 12,000; it is still largely undeveloped, and life on Lamma, if not totally primitive, is close to the essentials. 
 The principal settlements are Yung Shue Wan on Lammas northwest, and Sok Kwu Wan, on the east coast. 
Yung Shue Wan is still a very British residential enclave, with many nice pubs. 
Here, where East and West first met, life combines the spirit of Asia with something of the sunny atmosphere of the Mediterranean. 
Colonnaded public buildings, iron balconies, winding streets, flagstoned squares and the many churches all speak of the Portuguese inheritance as well as the Chinese, a fusion of East and West that has produced the unique Macanese culture. 
It was the only European gateway to China, and through Macau flowed Western technology and religion. 
No less impressive were the secular challenges. 
The Dutch sent an invasion flotilla to Macau in 1622, but the defenders triumphed. 
China began to relax trade restrictions, and with the rise of Hong Kong, Macau became an isolated Portuguese outpost. 
They were joined by a swarm of spies of all conceivable nationalities, and Macau won a name for international intrigue. 
Macaus population is estimated at around 450,000, an appallingly high figure for such a small area; recent land reclamation has eased the situation to some extent. 
Gambling provides almost 40 percent of the governments tax revenues, and is a major source of employment. 
Arriving The easiest way to get to Macau is by jetfoil, operated by TurboJet (Tel. 
Macaus own currency, the pataca, is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar, and you can use your Hong Kong currency freely in Macau. 
Also in front of the ferry terminal is a new Cyber fountain, with 86 water spouts that shoot up to 70 m (230 ft) and are illuminated at night by 288 spotlights producing 80 colors. 
For an authentic feel of old Portugal, slip into the cool entrance hall of theimpressive Leal Senado (Loyal Senate building), a fine example of colonial architecture. 
The inscription over the archway reads, Cidade do nome de Deus, no ha outra mais leal (City of the Name of God, None is More Loyal)  a bit of praise attributed to Portugals King John IV in the 17th century. 
Macaus most memorable monument is the Baroque faade of the ruins of So Paulo, the only remains of a beautiful 17th-century Jesuit church. 
Beneath the church, the Museum of Sacred Art houses a collection of sacramental objects. 
Entrance is by escalator, near St. 
It gives an overview of Macaus history and its daily life and traditions. 
The fort, built by the Jesuits in the 17th century as a defense against the Dutch, was largely destroyed by the same fire that burned St. 
Next to the museum, behind a gate (opened to anyone who knocks), is the Old Protestant Cemetery. 
The small, whitewashed chapelwas the first Protestant church built in China. 
Here, arched bridges, pagodas, fish ponds, and stands of bamboo create the mood of a timeless Chinese painting. 
Sun Yat-sen, founder of the Chinese Republic. 
Kun Iam Tong, off Avenida do Coronel Mesquita (open daily 8am6pm), is a 17th-century Buddhist temple of considerable splendor and charm. 
Another important ceremony took place in 1999 when Macau became part of China. 
Exhibits cover fishing, seaborne trade, sea transport, and there is an aquarium. 
The area was called A-Ma Gau (Bay of A-Ma), and in this way, Macau got its name. 
The remains of the 17th-century Barra Fortress, which once defended the southern tip of the peninsula, contains the chapel of Santiago (St. 
James is said to have stepped down from the altar and halted an invasion. 
The northernmost point in Macau is the frontier between two contrasting worlds. 
Trying Your Luck Macaus casinos are a source of non-stop excitement. 
The casinos offer familiar international games  baccarat, blackjack, boule, craps, roulette  along with more exotic Chinese pastimes. 
Dai-Siu (Big and Small) is a dice game in which the croupier throws three dice inside a glass container. 
They keep busy 24 hours a day, but if you want a change of scene there are always more gambling opportunities available. 
Market prices per tael (34 grams/1.2 ounces) of gold are set daily. 
Browsing is a real pleasure in Macaus main streets and byways, where shops aimed at the tourist market are interspersed with the more workaday ironmongers, herbalists, and noodle stalls. 
However, you are not likely to find bargains, and you should be aware that unless you are an expert, you can end up with a fake. 
Food and Drink Gourmets award Macau high marks for dependable Chinese cooking with an exotic bonus: Portuguese food and wines. 
Whether you choose to dine in one of the Macanese, Chinese, traditional Portuguese, or international-style restaurants, you will be treated to a hearty meal at a good price. 
A delicate, delicious fish is Macau sole (linguado). 
Macau has an ample supply of Portuguese wines. 
After dinner, a glass of Madeira or port is recommended to round off the meal. 
Taipa and Coloane Bridges link Macau with its two islands. 
The quaint Taipa Village, with its narrow lanes and colonial buildings painted yellow, blue, and green, has almost been completely swallowed up by the development of nearby housing projects. 
Pay a visit to the Casa Museu da Taipa, and youll be able to get a glimpse of how Macanese families lived in former days. 
 Farther away is Coloane, connected to Taipa by a causeway and a large land reclamation project. 
Cheoc Van and Hac Sa (Black Sands) are both popular resort areas, with lifeguards on duty in summer and windsurfing boards for rent. 
The village of Coloane is picturesque, with a central square lined with cafs. 
The small Chapel of St. 
Seac Pai Van Park, on the west coast of the island is an interesting natural preserve with aNatural History Museum. 
The city still maintains its important gateway role. 
Guangzhou, with a population of more than 5 million, straddles the Pearl River  Chinas fifth longest  which links the city to the South China Sea. 
The river also irrigates the carefully tended surrounding farmlands, creating a beautifully lush, subtropical scene. 
Guangzhou today is mostly about business and industry, featuring new development, skyscrapers, a whole new business area, and raised expressways. 
Guangzhou is interestingly one of Chinas most prosperous cities, determinedly on the move into the modern world. 
Arriving in Guangzhou There are many package tours to Guangzhou from Hong Kong (see page 113), and this may be the easiest way to visit the city. 
Citibus also travels to Guangzhou from CHKC; there are five round-trips a day, taking 31/2 hours. 
Hong Kong currency is widely accepted in Guangzhou, or you can change your currency into RMB (yuan) at any bank or hotel. 
If you travel by train, you will arrive at the Guangzhou East Station, a large modern complex, which connects with the subway, buses, hotel transfer services, and taxis. 
Sights in Guangzhou Yuexiu Park, situated near the Trade Fair in the northern part of the city, is Guangzhous largest; it covers a hilly 100 hectares (247 acres). 
In the park is the 1380 Zhenhai Tower, one of the citys oldest buildings. 
Dr. 
This enormous, modern version of a traditional Chinese building, with sweeping blue tile roofs, contains an auditorium big enough to seat 4,700 people. 
Guangzhous most important Buddhist monument is the 1,400-year-old Temple of the Six Banyan Trees (open 8am5pm). 
Golden Buddha statues in several of Buddhas aspects adorn the temples, and overlooking them is the 17-story Flower Pagoda, a slender relic of the Song dynasty (a.d. 
In the early Middle Ages, Canton had a significant Muslim population as a result of its trade with the Middle East. 
627. 
The modern minaret is known as the Plain (or Naked) Pagoda, in contrast to the Flower Pagoda of the Buddhist temple. 
An architectural wonder, it is itself a beautiful piece of craftsmanship with its sculpture and carved stone balustrades. 
Inside is a collection of ceramics, carvings, and furniture. 
A former Confucian temple is presently the home of the historic National Peasant Movement Institute, where the Chinese Communist Party trained its leaders in the 1920s. 
 Zhou Enlai also taught here. 
This small formerly residential island, beautifully shaded by banyan trees, was the home of the closed community of the foreign colony in the era of concessions. 
A popular optional excursion is an hours detour to Guangzhou Zoo, founded in 1958. 
Not to be missed is a visit to Guangzhous famous open-air market, Qing Ping. 
The Cantonese love to eat and have the reputation of eating almost anything that walks on four legs. 
More pleasantly, you can browse among lanes of antiques, flowers, herbs, fruit, goldfish, songbirds, and more. 
The individual artisans shops are no longer here, but you can visit a silk-weaving factory, a ceramics plant, and the Foshan Folk Art Studio, where you can observe workers making Chinese lanterns, carving sculptures, painting scrolls, and cutting intricate designs in paper. 
Foshans most outstanding artistic monument is Zu Miao, the Taoist Ancestral Temple, a Sung dynasty establishment rebuilt in the 14th century and well worth visiting. 
The complex contains the oldest wooden stage in China, used by the Wan Fu Tai Chinese opera. 
Literally created out of rural farmland, it was set up in the 1970s as the answer to Hong Kong. 
Because Shenzhen is much cheaper than Hong Kong, it is a popular weekend destination for Hong Kongs Chinese, who come to relax, dine in its resorts, and play golf  Shenzhen hosted the World Cup of Golf in 1995. 
City buses also go to Shenzhen. 
Shenzhen is a premier shopping center, and much cheaper than Hong Kong. 
You can use your Hong Kong dollars here, so theres no need to change currency. 
Just across the border is the huge Lo Wu City shopping mall, to which you can walk; other shopping malls are nearby. 
One of them  Splendid China  purports to show all of China in one day. 
The 24 China Folk Culture Villages represent Chinas ethnic variety; they feature craftspeople in traditional costumes along with folksong and dance performances. 
